--- PAGE 172 ---
3
Quests: When a crawler or party completes a 
Quest, they gain at least 1 Level—more if the Quest 
took place across multiple floors. (Your GM will use 
discretion here.)
Crawler Killers: Killing other crawlers is a great way 
to earn extra Levels! Each time you kill a crawler, you 
gain 1d6 Levels modified by your Level difference. 
If you are a lower Level than your victim, add the 
difference in Levels to your result, up to a maximum of 
gaining 15 Levels from one kill! If you are equal or a 
higher Level than your victim, subtract the difference 
to a minimum of 1 Level gained.
Grinding: When crawlers grind to raise their Skill 
Ranks, they occasionally level up during the process, 
though it is slow.
Bosses: When a party kills a Boss, each member gains 
Levels based on the tier of the Boss. Your GM can 
modify the number if the assault was very easy or very 
hard. Whoever lands the killing blow often earns a 
higher quality loot box but not extra Levels.
• Neighborhood Boss: Gain 1 Level
• Borough Boss: Gain 2 Levels
• City Boss: Gain 3 Levels
• Province Boss: Gain 4 Levels
• Country Boss: Gain 5 Levels
• Floor Boss: Gain 6 Levels
GRINDING
The Grinding is not only the name of another fucked-
up Matt Dinniman novel; here in the Dungeon 
Crawler Carl Roleplaying Game, it’s also the act of 
continually brutalizing the lowest-Level Mobs you 
can find to increase your Skill Ranks and occasionally 
level up.
To grind, you must gain access to a large group of 
Mobs in a relatively small area or along a path to a 
destination. There is no risk to you during a typical 
grind, but there’s also no time for looting Mob 
corpses. Instead of making individual Skill Checks 
during a grind session, it’s treated like a montage as 
you spend time improving your Skills.
Grinding is measured in hours. Choose the 
number of hours you wish to grind. Crawlers 
typically go for up to 5 hours at a time, but 
seasoned crawlers can push for much longer. For 

every hour of grinding past 5 hours in a single day, 
you must make an Unopposed Endurance Skill 
Check to see if that hour was productive or not. 
On Fail, that hour was not productive for you (no 
grinding time accrued), and you gain the Fatigued 
Debuff (see Debuffs, p. 96).
Neighborhood Maps and Borough Field Guides 
make grinding more efficient, because crawlers can 
avoid lulls in the action. If you grind for 5 or more 
hours, you accrue 1 bonus hour to your grinding 
time if you have a Neighborhood Map or 2 bonus 
hours if you have a Borough Field Guide. This allows 
you to grind for 5 hours (the safe limit per day) but 
get credit for 6 hours with a Neighborhood Map and 
7 hours with a Field Guide.
Crawlers declare how many hours they wish to grind. 
Then, if the GM wishes, they roll on the Grinding Tables 
in chapters 7, 8, or 9 (see Montages and Grinding for 
Experience, p. 259) to determine if anything affects 
the grind. The events on Grinding Tables represent 
events that could happen while grinding, including 
combats and unexpected delays. Grinding is supposed 
to represent a slice of life or montage scene, not grind 
play to a halt with extra combats against low-Level 
Mobs or sudden Boss Battles.
GRINDING SKILLS
At the end of the grind, choose any Skill (it doesn’t 
have to be combat-related) to accrue the hours 
earned. Attempting to Advance a Skill requires 
accruing grinding hours equal to its current Rank, but 
these hours need not be continuous or happen on 
the same day. They may accumulate from one day 
or even one floor to the next, so keep track of your 
grinding hours on your character sheet, perhaps in the 
“Notes” section on your “Skills” list.
When you have accumulated grinding hours in a Skill 
equal to your current Rank in that Skill, immediately roll 
a Skill Advancement Check for that Skill. Any penalties 
from Debuffs (Fatigued is common) apply to this check.
If you roll equal to or higher than your current 
Skill Rank, you immediately gain 1 Rank in that Skill. 
Regardless of the result, you cannot grind the same 
Skill more than once per day, because too much 
grinding leaves you raw and chapped. Give it a rest!
If you’ve been grinding for more hours than needed 
for a particular Skill, apply any additional hours to 
another Skill (you can’t bank hours for the same Skill). 
You may grind and track hours for multiple Skills at 
the same time if you wish.3

--- PAGE 173 ---
Example: If you grind for four hours, you can make 
a Skill Advancement Check for four Skills at Rank 1, 
two at Rank 2, or even one at Rank 3 and then apply 
the remaining hour to a Rank 2 Skill. Note that hour of 
progress on the Rank 2 Skill’s “Notes” section.
LEVELING UP VIA GRINDING
While you grind for Skills, you progress toward 
leveling up as well. Keep a running total of all your 

31
grinding hours and erase it only when you level up. 
No, I’m not going to do it for you.
You gain a Level when you grind a number of hours 
equal to your current Level (6 hours to advance from 
Level 6 to 7, for example). The party member with the 
lowest Level gains 1d2 Levels when they level up this 
way. If there is a tie for lowest, no one rolls 1d2.3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 174 ---
4
CHAPTER 4CHAPTER 44
Skills, Spells, & GearSkills, Spells, & Gear



--- PAGE 175 ---
To survive the World Dungeon, crawlers need to collect Skills, Spells, and Loot. 
Skills and Spells directly impact a crawler’s ability to function in the dungeon, 
and savvy crawlers look for ways to keep improving them. Loot takes the form 
of money , magical and mundane equipment, miscellaneous junk and materials for 
crafting, and sometimes you can even find a pet or a mount.
This chapter covers all the things crawlers can gain during the Crawl.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR
Skills
Skills are the heart of the Dungeon Crawler Carl 
Roleplaying Game. You make Skill Checks to do most 
things and gain upgrades from ranking up Skills.
Each Skill entry follows a consistent format:
The header is the name that tells you exactly 
what it’s called—hopefully something that sounds 
impressive when shouted aloud.
Under the header is a list of keywords identifying 
the Stat Mod you add to the Skill Check, if any, and 
any special traits tied to the Skill.
The description explains what the Skill actually does, 
which you should probably read before attempting 
it. On average, 35.71% of deaths in past Crawls are 
attributable to illiteracy. The description may contain 
additional keywords like “AI Favor” and “Limitations,” 
which vary by the Skill type.
Finally, the entry teases you with upgrade benefits 
if you train it to higher Ranks, as if you need more 
incentive to avoid your leg being ripped off by a 
giant demon crab, only to wake up two floors later to 
discover it grew an eyeball and a mouth and is licking 
your face off in anger at being replaced by a prosthetic.
SKILL CHECKS
Skill Checks are either Opposed or Unopposed, 
depending on what you are up against (see p. 59). 
Roll 1d20, add your Skill’s Rank, and add your 
associated Stat Mod. If the total matches or exceeds 
the Difficulty of the Check, the outcome is at least a 
Standard Success but could grant even better effects if 
you significantly exceed the Difficulty.
Your GM determines the Difficulty for a Check, so 
they’re the one who needs to know the exact type 
of Skill Check you’re making. They won’t share the 

41
Difficulty with you but will only inform you of the 
outcome. Don’t worry, System AIs don’t cheat or lie; 
we always fully believe what we tell you.
But if you must know every detail (good for you, 
boring for viewers), Opposed Skills make Checks 
against a specific antagonist, and the Difficulty factors 
in their Stat Mod. Unopposed Skills make Checks 
against things that don’t have a Stat block, like objects 
or the environment.
The Skill’s description lists the effects of a Standard 
Success. Lots of results are possible other than a 
Standard Success (see Degrees of Success and Failure, 
p. 60). Know that I encourage GMs to get creative 
when narrating both Successes and Fails; the more 
spectacular the results (good or bad), the more the 
viewers can’t turn away.
PASSIVE SKILLS
You don’t make Skill Checks to gain the effects of 
Passive Skills. This makes them easy to use but hard 
to Rank-up; since you don’t make a Skill Check, 
you can’t mark it for a Skill Advancement Check (p. 
169). Each Passive Skill entry describes how you can 
increase its Rank, typically requiring magic gear and 
training, though some feature other ways.
Using a Passive Skill typically requires an Action like 
any other Skill type. However, some trigger alongside 
other Skills at no extra Action cost, like Hand-to-Hand 
Damage Effects (see p. 180).
You can’t use a Passive Skill if you have no Ranks 
in it (untrained). The easiest way to gain them is via a 
potion, scroll, or gear. They can also be found in some 
Race and Class benefits starting on the Third Floor.
SKILL UPGRADES
As Skills increase in Rank, they grant additional 
bonuses at Ranks 5, 10, and 15.

--- PAGE 176 ---
4
Upgrades on Attack Skills typically add extra 
damage dice to the base effect damage, and these 
always apply even if other parts of the Upgrade are 
situational.
Where an Upgrade increases the range or duration, 
removes a limitation, or the like, the Upgrade 
overrides the base effect instead of being in addition 
to it. All other sorts of Upgrades get added together. 
Typically, these additive Upgrades use a plus sign (+) 
to help note this.
CUSTOM SKILL EXAMPLES
Paolo wants his crawler, Eglantine, to use an aforementioned Crochet
tries for something more imaginative and works with the GM to figure something out.
One idea is for Eglantine to be a wizard with knitting needles, so he invents the Needle
because it’s pretty clear that it’s got a pretty limited scope but will still have a couple obvious uses. And custom 
skills don’t need to be as broad or powerful as the ones presented below. For Upgrades, Paulo and the GM decide 
that Needle will mostly be used in combat, so they give it the standard weapon Rank 5 Upgrade. Then they add a 
Crafting Upgrade at Rank 10 and Dagger’s Rank 15 Upgrade.
Needle
Dexterity
You have knack for using needles, whether making things or using them as weapons. Needle
of needle use and possibly peripheral applications, such as metaphorically threading a needle (getting through a 
tight space), crafting fabric‑based items, repairing a sail, or figh
Upgrades
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage
Rank 10: Pick a needlework specialty item. You roll with Advantage when creating your mundane specialty item.
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage, and attacks targeting the back of a foe deal ×2 damage.
After creating Needle , Paolo isn’t sure he wants to focus on attacks with needles. He tries again so he has 
a second option, this time focusing on the material. Yarn Wrangler
Ropework.
Yarn Wrangler
Dexterity
You have a knack for yarn and related materials. You can use this Skill to create or salvage yarn, tie people up, or 
even gain a cat’s attention.
Upgrades
Rank 5: You can also use this skill as an Attack, with a 10ft range vs. the target’s Evade. On Success, the target 
gains the Held Debuff.
Rank 10: Pick a yarn‑craft specialty item. You roll with Advantage when creating your mundane specialty item.
Rank 1 5: The attack range is now your Strength value (min 15). Just make sure your yarn is long enough.
Paulo and the GM decide that both skills might work well for the character, but since the Rank 10 overlaps, Paulo 
might want to just pick one or redesign one of them. Another player mentioned they expected Yarn Wrangler
deal with lassos, so Paolo has plenty of options to consider.

CREATING YOUR OWN 
SKILLS
The list of Skills in the World Dungeon is endless. Our 
artificial sky’s the limit, folks! Here’s the framework in 
which you can create any Skill you want. You’ll need 
to use it if you come across a Skill or Spell marked 
with an gear asterisk ( ): that’s the cue that it’s a 
Custom Skill not found in this book.
The simplest way to customize a Skill is to reuse 
an existing Skill but reframe its narrative. A Skill like 
Dumpster Diving could just as easily become Search 4
  Skill. But that’s a bit on‑the‑nose, so he 
  skill. The GM likes it 
  covers any sort 
ting with knitting needles.
  is a good option based on Fabricate and 
  to 

--- PAGE 177 ---
COMBAT-FOCUSED EXAMPLE
Upon reaching the Third Floor, Paolo wants Eglantine to choose a Samurai
video games and anime, he decides he wants a Shinken Shirahadori or Samurai Blade Clap
alistic, but cool. Talking it over with the GM, they decide it’s very narrowly useful, and probably hard to train up.
Samurai Blade Clap
Dexterity
You can catch blades with your bare hands. Or you’d better hope you can. Make a Samurai Blade Clap
Check when you’re being attacked by an Edged melee weapon.
On Success, you avoid the damage and effects from the attack.
Upgrades
Rank 5: You can also use this Skill against Ranged weapons if the missile features an edge (such as arrows or 
shuriken). You can put the projectile in your Inventory after catching it as part of the same Action.
Rank 10: On an Amazing Success or better, you disarm the melee attacker.
Rank 1 5: You have +5 DR Edged weapons you attempt to catch.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR
or Scrounging, just by changing the name and 
thematic focus while still operating within the same 
mechanical structure.
Mixing and matching Skill effects and Upgrades is 
a great way to create weird Skills to really customize 
your crawler. A Crochet Skill, for instance, might 
have a custom Upgrade that works like a Utility Skill 
Upgrade, or it could borrow a Rank 5 Upgrade found 
on the Dagger Skill. You can invent a new effect or 
Upgrade following the guideline that the more niche 
it is, the stronger it can be. If something ends up too 
strong or too weak, the GM can always patch it later. 
The system adjusts; so should you.
In play, you’ll often find more than one Skill that 
applies to a situation. Because Skills improve through 
use, you might choose to attempt a task with a 
weaker or less-optimal Skill just to gain experience 
with it. This is perfectly normal behavior and occa-
sionally even works out.
Made-up Skills should typically be narrowly focused 
and should not completely replace or outgun existing 
Skills… or Actions like Evade. If you want to create 
an Evade-like Skill, it should perhaps only be useful 
against a certain attack type (such as Edged Weapons 
and Ranged Weapons) or come with a significant 
downside that makes its usage situational.
Evade Checks don’t use Ranks, so anything that 
adds Ranks to a Skill Check that lets you avoid any 
type of attack will instantly be much better than 
Evading, and that’s a no-no. If you don’t spill blood, I 
won’t be happy. That’s the whole point!

41
‑like Class. Taking some inspiration from 
  Skill. It’s totally unre‑
  Skill 
ATTACK SKILLS 
(WEAPONS)
Attack Skills represent your ability to harm, disable,  
or otherwise make something stop trying to kill  
you, whether through weapons, fists, or pure 
destructive intent.
Name: The name of the Attack appears as a headline 
to the entry.
Attack Type: Melee or Ranged. Most Attacks are 
Melee, which have a range of 5 feet (i.e., adjacent). 
If an Attack has a range farther than that, it will be 
noted in the Range entry below this line. The default 
Stat Mod used for Melee rolls to hit is Str, while the 
default Stat Mod for ranged weapon Attacks is Dex. If 
another Stat Mod is used to hit, it will be listed here.
Range: If the Attack can hit a target farther than 5 feet 
away, the maximum distance it can hit will be listed 
here. If the Attack has no range listed, its range is 
Melee range (adjacent or within 5 feet).
AI Favor: Low-damage weapons grant AI Favor to 
you if you use such a wimpy Attack for a majority of 
your attacks during a combat that lasts for at least 
three rounds.
Limitations: Any conditions, requirements, or 
penalties are listed here. “Requires two hands to 
wield” is a common limitation, which means both 
hands must be used to wield the weapon (I’m sure 
you never would’ve figured that out without this 
explanation). You can’t hold other things at the same 
time when attacking.

--- PAGE 178 ---
4
Cooldown: If the weapon or effect has a cooldown, it 
will be listed here. Hit or miss, the timer starts. While 
on cooldown, the weapon or effect cannot be used.
Description: Any notes or descriptions of the Skill are 
listed here. Make an Attack Skill Check vs. the target’s 
Evade value, which is: 10 + Dex + the Floor number.
Base Damage: This is the damage dice the weapon deals 
with 0–4 Ranks in the Skill. Zero Ranks means using it 
untrained. The appropriate Stat Mod value is added to 
the damage. This Mod does not always match the one 
listed in the Attack Type line, and not every weapon adds 
a Stat Mod. Finally, the damage type is listed. The damage 
type is important if the target has Resistance, Immunity, or 
Vulnerability to that damage type.
Effects: If there are effects other than damage, they 
will be listed there.
Upgrades: When you reach Rank 5, 10, and 15, these 
bonuses kick in.
Write your Attack Skills in the “Attacks” section on 
the front of your character sheet. Fill out the “To Hit” 
box for your weapons, writing in your “Rank + Stat 
Mod” values.
Then fill in the “Damage” box. Write in the dice as 
“1dX,” replacing the “X” with the die type noted in the 
description. The weapon’s base damage entry will also 
tell you which Stat Mod (if any) you add to the damage. 
Use the Effects area to write in short reminders of base 
effects, Upgrade effects, and AI Favor (if any).
Lastly, write in the Attack Skill name on your “Skills” 
list. There, you can write in additional notes and mark 
the advancement box on the far right when you use the 
Skill. This keeps all your Skills in one place when rolling 
for Skill Advancement (p. 169). Just remember to 
update your Rank in the “Attacks” section as well when 
you advance an Attack Skill, or you’ll be weak forever, 
just like your middle school gym teacher prophesied.
“One doesn’t have to resort 
to gore-themed violence in 
order to be stylish.”
- Princess Donut4

Rank Damage Dice
One common damage bonus is adding a “Rank 
damage die” to your damage roll. That die is based 
on your current Rank in the Attack Skill, though 
sometimes other Skills use this as well, and not 
always for damage purposes. It is not part of the 
base damage of the Attack, so it is not doubled on 
a Critical Hit. Table 37 shows the Rank damage dice 
for each Skill Rank.
Roll the die that is closest to your Skill Rank without 
going over (Rank 1 simply grants +1 damage). For 
example, if you have 7 Ranks, your Rank damage die is 
1d6, as that is the closest die without going above 7.
TABLE 37: RANK DAMAGE DICE SCALING
SKILL RANK DAMAGE DICE
1 +1
2–3 +1d2
4–5 +1d4
6–7 +1d6
8–9 +1d8
10–1 1 +1d10
12–13 +1d12
14–15 +1d8 & +1d6
16–17 +2d8
18–19 +1d10 & +1d8
20 +2d10

--- PAGE 179 ---
Attack Skills
Attacks are grouped by type, but each weapon entry 
is a unique Skill. You don’t gain experience for using 
all edged weapons just because you gave someone a 
paper cut. The name of the weapon is also the name 
of the Skill used to wield that weapon.
All Attack Skill Checks are made vs. the target’s 
Evade value, which sets the Difficulty of the attack.
ANIMAL CRAWLER & PET 
STRIKE SKILLS
BACK CLAW
Melee Attack, Str
Base Damage: 1d6 + Str Slashing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d6 base damage
Rank 10: +1d6 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d6 base damage, 
and the target gains the Blood 
Trail Debuff.

41
BITE
Melee Attack, Str
Limitations: The target must have an appendage you 
can clamp down onto. You taste your victim’s blood. 
Better hope they’re not poisonous.
Base Damage: 1d8 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage. You may latch on to 
move when the foe moves during their next Action 
(then you let go).
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and the target gains the 
Woozy Debuff.
SLICE ATTACK
Melee Attack, Dex
AI Favor: 1
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Slashing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage
Rank 1 5: +2d4 base damage4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 180 ---
4
BASHING WEAPON SKILLS
CLUB
Melee Attack, Str
Base Damage: 1d6 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d6 base damage
Rank 10: +1d6 base damage, and the target gains the 
Woozy Debuff.
Rank 1 5: +1d6 base damage, and if the target loses 
at least 3 Health Bar slots, they gain the Take Down 
Debuff.
IMPROVISED WEAPONS
Melee Attack, Str
AI Favor: 1
Pick up something and smack someone else with it. 
That object must weigh at least one pound and can’t 
weigh more than your Str in pounds.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage, and you can throw the 
item (using this Skill) up to a range of Rank ×5 feet.
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage, and you roll your first 
Attack each combat with Advantage due to the unex‑
pected nature of your Attacks.
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage
WARHAMMER
Melee Attack, Str
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield.
Base Damage: 1d10 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d10 base damage
Rank 10: +1d10 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d10 base damage, and the target (of your 
size or smaller) is pushed 15 feet.

EDGED WEAPON SKILLS
AXE
Melee Attack, Str
Base Damage: 1d6 + Str Slashing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d6 base damage
Rank 10: +1d6 base damage, and you may make an 
extra free Attack with Disadvantage against another 
foe adjacent to both you and the original target.
Rank 1 5: +1d6 base damage, and on an Amazing 
Success or better, sever an arm (or similar) of your foe 
(which disarms anyone with a two‑handed weapon).
DAGGER
Melee Attack, Dex
AI Favor: 1
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage, and this Attack deals 
Armor‑Piercing damage (ignores DR).
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage, and you can throw this 
weapon (using this Skill) up to a range of Rank × 5 feet.
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage, and Attacks targeting 
the back of a foe deal ×2 damage.
LONGSWORD
Melee Attack, Str
Base Damage: 1d8 + Str Slashing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and you gain a +1 
Evade Buff.
RAPIER
Melee Attack, Dex
Base Damage: 1d6 + Dex Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d6 base damage
Rank 10: +1d6 base damage, and you gain a +1 
Evade Buff.
Rank 1 5: +1d6 base damage, and you gain a +1 
Evade Buff.4

--- PAGE 181 ---
HAND-TO-HAND 
COMBAT SKILLS
When attacking with a hand-to-hand Attack Skill that 
has a description stating you can choose a Damage 
Effect, choose one available Damage Effect before 
you make the Attack Skill Check. If the Attack hits, 
first roll the base damage dice and then apply the 
chosen Damage Effect.
If you choose not to use a Damage Effect for 
a majority of your hand-to-hand attacks during a 
combat that lasts for at least three rounds, you gain 
the amount of AI Favor listed in the Skill’s entry.
FOOT SOLDIER
Melee Attack, Str
AI Favor: 1 (only if no Damage Effect is used)
Choose the Powerful Strike or Smush Damage Effect 
(if you wish) before rolling to hit.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage, and the target gains the 
Sore as Shit Debuff.
NOGGIN NOCKER
It’s like a headbutt, only cooler.
Melee Attack, Str
AI Favor: 1 (only if no Damage Effect is used)
Limitations: On Success, you lose 1 Health Bar slot.
Choose the Skullcracker or Powerful Strike Damage 
Effect (if you wish) before rolling to hit.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Con Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage, and you don’t take any 
damage from your own Attack.
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage, and add 1 Rank damage die.
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage, and the target gains the 
Woozy Debuff.
PUGILISM
Philistines call it punching.
Melee Attack, Dex

41
AI Favor: 2 (only if no Damage Effect is used)
Choose the Dirty Fighting, Iron Punch, or Powerful 
Strike Damage Effect (if you wish) before rolling to hit.
Base Damage: 1d2 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +2d2 base damage
Rank 10: +1d2 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d2 base damage, and you may make an 
extra free Attack with Disadvantage.
UNARMED COMBAT
Melee Attack, Str
AI Favor: 1
Limitations: Cannot choose a Damage Effect.
Every crawler starts out with this Skill. This is a mixture 
of all strikes, so call it what you will when you Attack.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage
Rank 1 5: +2d4 base damage
WRASSLIN’
Melee Attack, Str
AI Favor: 1 (only if no Damage Effect is used)
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield.
Choose the Choke Out, Dirty Fighting, or Toss Damage 
Effect (if you wish) before rolling to hit.
On Success, the target gains the Held Debuff. Held 
foes continue to be Held until they spend an Action to 
attempt escape (Mobs may use their Move Action). To 
prevent such an escape, you must use an Action as an 
Interrupt and succeed in a Wrasslin’ Str‑Opposed Skill 
Check.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may maintain the Held Debuff at no 
Action cost if you wish, but your Skill Check to prevent 
escape is made with Disadvantage.
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 182 ---
4
HAND-TO-HAND 
DAMAGE EFFECT SKILLS
Hand-to-hand Damage Effects are a special kind of 
Passive Skill that can be added to certain hand-to-hand 
Skills to enhance or modify the attack. If the attack 
succeeds, the chosen Damage Effect applies as well.
If the attack Fails, the Damage Effect does nothing 
but still goes on cooldown (if there is one).
When you make an Attack that adds a Damage Effect, 
place a mark for later Skill Advancement (p. 169) in 
either the Attack Skill or the Damage Effect, not both.
CHOKE OUT
Wrasslin’ Damage Effect, Passive
If the target is at 10% Health Bar or less, you deal ×2 
the total damage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Choke Out activates at 20% Health Bar or less.
Rank 10: Choke Out activates at 40% Health Bar or 
less, and deals ×4 the total damage.
Rank 1 5: Choke Out activates at 80% Health Bar or 
less, and deals ×8 the total damage.
DIRTY FIGHTING
Pugilism or Wrasslin’ Damage Effect, Passive
You use underhanded tactics to win fights and cause a 
different kind of harm to your opponents. If the Attack 
Skill Check is a Critical Fail, lose 1 Popularity.
Apply the Woozy Debuff to the 
target.

UPGRADES
Rank 5: Also apply The Taint Debuff to the target.
Rank 10: Also apply the Blinded Debuff to the target. 
You no longer lose Popularity on Critical Fails.
Rank 1 5: Also apply an immediate Minor Injury Debuff 
to the target.
IRON PUNCH
Pugilism Damage Effect, Passive
You deal +1d2 base damage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Add 1 Rank damage die.
Rank 10: You may choose to have the target gain the 
Stunned Debuff instead of rolling damage.
Rank 1 5: Add 1 Rank damage die, and the target gains 
the Stunned Debuff.
POWERFUL STRIKE
Foot Soldier, Noggin Nocker, or Pugilism Damage Effect, 
Passive
Cooldown: 30 hours
Multiply your base damage dice result by your Rank in 
this Skill, then add your modifiers and buffs.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: The cooldown is 10 hours.
Rank 10: The cooldown is 5 hours.
Rank 1 5: The cooldown is 2 hours.
SKULLCRACKER
Noggin Nocker Damage Effect, Passive
If the target is the same size as you, gain +1d4 base 
damage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage if target is the same size 
as you.
Rank 10: If the target is the same size as you, add 
1 Rank damage die, and the target gains the 
Stunned Debuff.
Rank 1 5: If the target is the same size as you, add 1 
Rank damage die, and the target gains the Blood Trail 
Debuff.4

--- PAGE 183 ---
SMUSH
Foot Soldier Damage Effect, Passive
Limitations: You can only apply this Damage Effect to 
targets with 20% Health Bar or less.
Cooldown: Once per round.
You deal ×2 the total damage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Smush activates at 30% Health Bar or less 
and deals ×3 the total damage.
Rank 10: This skill has no cooldown.
Rank 1 5: Smush activates at 40% Health Bar or less 
and deals ×4 the total damage.
TOSS
Wrasslin’ Damage Effect, Passive
You deal +1d8 base damage + Str Bludgeoning, end 
the Held Debuff, and throw the target 5 feet for every 
five Ranks (minimum 5 feet) you have in this Skill. You 
can only Toss foes of a smaller size than you.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can Toss foes up to your own size or smaller.
Rank 10: You can Toss foes one size larger than you or 
smaller.
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and you can throw foes 
two sizes larger than you or smaller.
RANGED WEAPON 
SKILLS
Ranged Skills allow you to strike targets from a distance, 
hopefully before they can get into range to attack you—
you filthy camper. All ranged weapons use your Dex to 
hit, and some add your Str to the damage.
BOW
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 100 feet
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield. Each Attack 
requires proper ammunition.
Base Damage: 1d6 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d6 base damage
Rank 10: +1d6 base damage, and add 1 Rank damage die.
Rank 1 5: +1d6 base damage, and the target gains the 
Blood Trail Debuff.

41
“Ranged weapons. I didn’t 
like ranged weapons.”
—Carl4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR
CROSSBOW
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 50 feet
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield. Each Attack 
requires proper ammunition.
Cooldown: Once per round.
Base Damage: 1d8 Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage, and the target gains the 
Blood Trail Debuff.
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and the range is 100 
feet.
HANDGUN
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 150 feet
Limitations: Each Attack requires proper ammunition. 
Spend one Action to reload after a Major Fail or worse.
Base Damage: 1d8 Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and the target gains the 
Staggered Debuff.

--- PAGE 184 ---
4
JAVELIN
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 40 feet
Base Damage: 1d8 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage, and this attack deals 
Armor‑Piercing damage (ignores DR).
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and its range increases 
by your Strength score in feet.
SHOTGUN
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 30 feet
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield. Each Attack 
requires proper ammunition. Spend one Action to 
reload after a Major Fail or worse.
Base Damage: 1d10 Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d10 base damage
Rank 10: +1d10 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d10 base damage, +5ft Splash
SHURIKEN
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 30 feet
AI Favor: 1
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage, and the range is 40 feet.
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage, and you may make an 
extra free attack with Disadvantage.
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage, and you may make an 
extra free attack with Disadvantage.
SLINGSHOT
Ranged Attack, Dex
Range: 30 feet
AI Favor: 2
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield.
Base Damage: 1d2 + Str Bludgeoning

UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d2 base damage, and its range increases 
by your Strength score in feet.
Rank 10: +1d2 base damage, and add 1 Rank damage die.
Rank 1 5: +1d2 base damage, and add 1 Rank damage die.
REACH WEAPON SKILLS
Reach weapons allow you to make melee attacks 
against foes up to 10 feet away but not through occu-
pied spaces. You may attack diagonally through the 
junction of two spaces as long as at least one of those 
spaces is unoccupied.
HERDING WEAPONS
Melee Attack, Str
You start with a shepherd’s crook but soon have more 
tricks up your dirty sleeves.
Range: 10 feet
AI Favor: 1
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage and you may slide the 
target 5 feet
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage, and you may use this 
skill to make a Sling attack with a range of 50 feet, but 
using Dex to hit.
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage, and the target gains the 
Take Down Debuff.
LANCE
Melee Attack, Str
Range: 10 feet
Limitations: Must be mounted to use. Cannot be used 
in conjunction with Attack of Opportunity or Zone of 
Control Skills.
Base Damage: 1d12 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d12 base damage
Rank 10: +1d12 base damage, and +1 damage for 
every 10 feet your mount Moved this turn.
Rank 1 5: +1d12 base damage, and +X damage, where 
X is the size of your mount.4

--- PAGE 185 ---
POLEARM
Melee Attack, Str
Range: 10 feet
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield.
Base Damage: 1d8 + Str Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage, and +1 Rank in the 
Zone of Control Skill.
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage, and +1 Rank in the 
Zone of Control Skill.
QUARTERSTAFF
Melee Attack, Str
Range: 10 feet
Limitations: Requires two hands to wield.
Base Damage: 1d6 + Str Bludgeoning
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d6 base damage
Rank 10: +1d6 base damage, and you gain a +1 
Evade Buff.
Rank 1 5: +1d6 base damage, and you gain a +1 
Evade Buff.
EXPLOSIVES SKILLS
For handling explosives, see Explosives Handling, 
Goblin Explosives, and Incendiary Device Handling in 
Utility Skills (below). These Skills will also be useful for 
crafting your own explosives once you have access to 
a Sapper’s Table on the Fourth Floor.
As crawlers descend to lower floors, explosives 
become more complex than the Tutorial Floors’ 
“light and throw” variety. See the Area of Effect 
Attacks  (p. 83) for targeting, Difficulties, and what 
happens when you miss your target with tossed 
explosives. Your explosives Skill is not used when 
attacking with a thrown explosive, but the GM 
should have you make an Unopposed handling Skill 
Check before throwing.
Here are the explosives typically found on the first 
five floors. Lesser explosives can be found on lower 
floors, but the more powerful explosives are rarely 
seen on the upper floors.

41
“I must admit, I like it when you 
blow stuff up. I like it a lot.”
—Princess Donut4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR
Floor 1: Standard Explosive—Dynamite: 1d6 
Bludgeoning, 0ft Blast radius +5ft Splash.
Floor 2: Goblin Explosive—Dynamite: 2d6 
Bludgeoning damage, 5ft Blast radius + 5ft Splash.
Floor 2: Incendiary Device—Carl’s Jug O’ Boom: 1d8 
Fire damage, 5ft Blast radius + 15ft Splash. Anyone who 
loses at least 1 Health Bar slot gains the Burned Debuff.
Floor 3: Goblin Explosive—Hob-Lobbers: 3d6 
Piercing, +10ft Splash
Floor 4: Standard Explosive—Demon Det Cord: 5d6 
Bludgeoning, deals double damage to objects. Can 
only be applied to non-moving targets.
Floor 5: Incendiary Device—Gnomish Knock-Knock: 
4d6 Fire, 10ft Blast radius +10ft Splash, and anyone 
who fails to Evade gains the Burned Debuff. As this is 
a notoriously unstable fuel-air explosive, a Critical Fail 
is achieved on a Natural 1–4.
Most explosives are custom made and not available 
on store shelves. Carl had his custom Jelly Bombs, 
Banger Spheres, Chum Bombs, and more.

--- PAGE 186 ---
4
SMOKE
Smoke is used for concealment, distraction, and 
confusion. Attacking into or out of smoke is done 
with Disadvantage (see Mob Advantage and 
Disadvantage p. 60).
Thrown smoke bombs are popular on most 
dungeon floors as a way to get out of trouble quick-
ly. See the Throwing Skill (p. 200) for targeting, 
Difficulties, and what happens when you miss your 
target. You don’t need to make a Skill Check to drop it 
in your own space.
Floor 1: Goblin Smoke Bomb: Creates a multicolor 
smoke cloud that reaches 30 feet in each direction 
from the point of impact, with a maximum duration of 
3 minutes. However, even a slight breeze will dissipate 
it in 1 minute.
Floor 3: Hobgoblin Smoke Curtain: Creates a dense 
white fog over a 60ft radius that holds even in a breeze.
Floor 5: Hobgoblin Disco Ball: Created by infusing 
(see Infusion Skill, p. 194) an Invisibility potion onto 
a Hobgoblin Smoke Curtain. It produces thick multi-
hued smoke plumes, along with some sick beats. It 
blinds everyone in the area, friend and foe alike.
Utility Skills
Utility Skills help crawlers survive, adapt, and solve 
problems that can’t be fixed by hitting them until they 
stop moving.
Checks that are labeled as Unopposed can, at the 
GM’s discretion, become Opposed if something is 
actively working against you. For example, you’re 
trying to swim the rapids, and some dipshit is throwing 
fishing nets at you. Cut it out, Cletus! Or I’m gonna tell 
Mom on you!
ACUTE EARS
Intelligence
Passive
Improves a crawler’s hearing and allows the crawler 
to see more Mobs on the minimap in their HUD. The 
information is “somewhat reliable.”
Rank 5: Information on the Mob’s size and whether 
you have encountered them before are added to the 
red dot indicator.

Rank 10: Mobs of a lower level than you cannot Am‑
bush your party.
Rank 1 5: Mobs cannot Ambush your party.
AIMING
Passive
Limitations: This Skill is used only in conjunction with 
Ranged Attacks. Mark this Skill for Advancement only 
when applying its Ranks to such an Attack.
You are skilled at targeting vital body parts to deal 
additional damage.
When making a Ranged Attack, you can add your 
Ranks in this Skill to your Attack Skill Check if you 
choose to make the Check with Disadvantage.
On Success, add 1d4 to the damage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 damage
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage
ALCHEMY
Intelligence
Used for crafting potions and poisons. See Crafting p. 
2 21.
You may craft potions up to a +5 bonus level.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may craft potions up to a +10 bonus level.
Rank 10: You may create additional potions of the 
same kind without spending extra time.
Rank 1 5: You can write the recipe for any potion you find.
AMBUSH
Intelligence
You are skilled at popping up out of nowhere. When a 
Mob is moving toward you, even if they are aware of your 
general presence, make an Int‑Opposed Skill Check.
On Success, you gain a surprise Action against the 
Mob before combat starts. As an unseen attacker, you 
Attack with Advantage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: If you Attack with your Surprise Action, add 
an Ambush Rank damage die to your Surprise Attack 
damage.
Rank 10: When other crawlers in your party roll this skill 
untrained, they roll as normal (not with Disadvantage).4

--- PAGE 187 ---
“That is the equivalent of 
dropping a grenade down your 
pants and shouting, ‘Yolo!’”
—The System AI4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR
Rank 1 5: You gain a second bonus Action as a sur‑
prise Action. This bonus Action can’t be an Attack.
ANIMAL HANDLING
Charisma
You are skilled in calming, befriending, and guiding 
animals. Make an Int‑Opposed Skill Check.
On Success, the animal is friendly enough to avoid 
attacking you.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Choose an animal type to specialize in. You 
have Advantage on your Animal Handling Skill Checks 
against that animal type. You gain a second bonus 
Action as a surprise Action. This bonus Action can’t be 
an attack.
Rank 10: Forming each level of bonding with a poten‑
tial pet takes half the normal time.
Rank 1 5: You can have up to two pets.
ARCANE
Intelligence
You have general knowledge of magic and can de‑
termine whether items are magical or not. Make an 
Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you can identify the item as magical or not.

41
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You are able to determine details such as the 
specific Rank and bonus levels of magical items.
Rank 10: You can imbue items with inherent spells 
using an Arcanist Table. See Crafting on p. 22 1.
Rank 1 5: The default cooldown of your imbued spells 
is 3 hours.
ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY
Passive, Interrupt
Limitations: Requires a single‑handed melee weapon 
with a range no greater than 5 feet.
When a foe moves out of a space adjacent to you (ex‑
cept via a Step), you may spend an Action to make an 
Attack Action as an Interrupt against that foe.
On Success, roll damage and apply any other effects 
from the Attack!
UPGRADES
Rank 5: If the foe moves into another space adjacent 
to you, they must stop.
Rank 10: A foe using their Step no longer prevents 
this ability.
Rank 1 5: Roll the Attack Skill Check with Advantage.
BACKFIRE
Intelligence
Limitations: Compensated Anarchist Class Only
You are skilled at neutralizing and deconstructing traps 
without the use of a Sapper’s Table. Triggering mecha‑
nisms are quite valuable. Time required to neutralize a 
trap is 10 minutes. Time required to deconstruct it is 1 
hour. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you successfully take apart the trap and 
can repurpose it.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can identify when the trap was placed. 
Time required to neutralize a trap is 5 minutes.
Rank 10: You can identify when the trap was created. 
Time required to deconstruct a trap is 30 minutes.
Rank 1 5: You can identify the designer of the trap. 
Time required to deconstruct a trap is 15 minutes.

--- PAGE 188 ---
4
BALANCE
Dexterity
You can traverse tricky surfaces with general ease. 
Make an Unopposed Skill Check. The GM may add 
Difficulty for especially crazy surfaces.
On Success, you keep your balance on tricky or shift‑
ing surfaces.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may perform Move Actions in difficult 
terrain without penalty.
Rank 10: When subject to a Take Down or involuntary 
Move effects, you may use this skill as a free Interrupt 
Action to avoid the effect.
Rank 1 5: You may perform your Step on vertical 
surfaces (yes, like in The Matrix), but must end it on a 
flat(ish) surface.
BASIC SCIENCE
Intelligence
You understand basic scientific principles and natural 
laws, which you hope are still in effect in the dungeon. If 
you want to conduct experiments involving dead Goblins 
and various acids, this is the Skill for you. Experiments 
take 2 hours to perform. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you learn or confirm something.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Experiments take 1 hour to perform.
Rank 10: Choose a specialty (physics, biology, chemis‑
try, Earth science, etc.), and roll with Advantage when 
dealing with that.
Rank 1 5: Experiments take 30 minutes to perform.
BOMB SURGEON
Intelligence
Use this Skill to deconstruct explosive bombs and smoke 
bombs. You can then use the half‑sized bomb, or use the 
component parts to craft new bombs using other Skills.
If you are using a Sapper’s Table, you do not have to 
make an Unopposed Explosives Handling Skill Check 
to avoid a mishap. Time required is 1 hour. Make an 
Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you have deconstructed it.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Time required is 30 minutes.
Rank 10: You never have to make an Explosives Han‑
dling Skill Check when using this skill.

Rank 1 5: When cutting dynamite in half to make small‑
er bombs, round dice up. Time required is 15 minutes.
CALLIGRAPHY
Dexterity
Used for making documents look super elegant. Make 
an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, what you have written is a joy to read and 
feels important, even if it’s bad news.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Roll with Advantage on your next Charisma 
Skill Check vs. the recipient of your beautiful paper.
Rank 10: You are able to craft scrolls as if this were a 
crafting skill. See Crafting, p. 22 1.
Rank 1 5: Once per floor, you may craft a scroll for a 
spell you have only seen cast within the last 2 hours.
CARTOGRAPHY
Intelligence
You probably played some old‑school TTRPGs and 
think that mapping the dungeon will help you in some 
way. Wrong! It will help you in many ways. Make an 
Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you figure out where you are in relation to 
other things.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can always return from whence you came 
quickly, assuming the dungeon walls haven’t shifted in 
the meantime.
Rank 10: You provide an Advantage die to crawlers 
in your party (could be you) who are making Tracking 
Skill Checks or Checks that rely on spatial relations.
Rank 1 5: Even with merely a finger point or a “that‑
taway,” you can get from point A to point B via the 
most direct path.
CAT-LIKE REFLEXES
Dexterity
Limitation: This limited Skill is only available to cat‑
based Races, such as Cat, Cat Girl/Cat Boy, and Tigran
You gain a +10ft Move. Use this Skill Check when you 
would make a Dexterity Stat Check (vs. the typically 
lesser Stat Check Difficulty).
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Reduce the damage you take from foes’ Sur‑
prise Attacks against you by your Rank in this skill.4

--- PAGE 189 ---
Rank 10: Reduce all Area damage you take by 50% 
(rounded down).
Rank 1 5: +10ft Move. You gain a +1 Evade Buff. Roll 
with Advantage to Evade Attacks and effects that 
would apply the Held Debuff (or similar) to you.
CATCHER
Passive, Interrupt
When a Successful direct (non‑Area) Attack is about 
to damage an ally, you leap in and take the damage 
instead. You must be adjacent to that ally but can take 
a 10ft Step before using this Skill to get into position.
You take the damage. You can’t use Evade, Shield 
Block, and other Skills or Spells to negate damage 
dealt to you this way.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You’ve learned how to take hits. You gain +5 
DR when using this Skill.
Rank 10: You gain +5 DR a when using this Skill.
Rank 1 5: You gain +5 DR when using this Skill and 
ignore any Debuffs attached to this damage.

41
CESTA PUNTA
Dexterity
Limitations: Only acquired via an Earth 
Hobby Potion
Use this Skill Check when playing jai alai or 
when throwing things that fit in the xistera. See 
Throwing p. 200 for rules on throwing things, but 
use the ranges below. Roll with Disadvantage at rang‑
es over 500 feet.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Throw range Strength ×20 feet.
Rank 10: Add 1 Cesta Punta Rank damage die to 
thrown damaging Attacks.
Rank 1 5: Throw range Strength ×30 feet, and roll with 
Disadvantage at ranges over 2,000 feet.
CHARACTER ACTOR
Passive, Charisma
Limitations: Former Child Actor Class Only. Rank 
increases by 1 when descending to a new floor only.
At the start of each floor, choose a new Class from 
a random list of three provided by the GM. You gain 
a random assortment of the new Class’s abilities for 
the remainder of the current floor, while keeping your 
current ones.
For each bullet point line item in the new Class descrip‑
tion, roll 1d2. On a 2, you gain the listed abilities.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: The random Classes increase in rarity and 
power based on the crawler’s Stats and Level.
Rank 10: Skill Ranks gained in any newly‑granted 
Skills persist from floor to floor, but the starting Ranks 
of those Skills are lost.
Rank 1 5: You choose the Class from any available.
CHOPPER PILOT
Dexterity
Known as a motorcycle in most parts of the world—
and in the World Dungeon.
Limitations: You suffer Disadvantage on Attack Skill 
Checks made while Piloting and cannot Attack with a 
weapon that requires two hands.
You don’t need to use this Skill if you’re cruising 
through a town, but if you’re racing, chasing, show‑
ing off, or trying to pop a wheelie, this is the Skill you 
want.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 190 ---
4
If you’re doing something wild or trying to avoid 
becoming a skid mark on the highway, make an Un‑
opposed Skill Check. Depending on how extreme the 
circumstances are, the GM may apply Advantage or 
Disadvantage to the Check.
On Success, you stay upright while performing your 
crazy maneuvers.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your chopper has +5ft Move.
Rank 10: Attacking while piloting no longer suffers 
Disadvantage.
Rank 1 5: Your chopper has +5ft Move. When per‑
forming crazy stunts (like riding up a canyon wall), roll 
with Advantage.
CLIMBING
Strength
Limitations: If you Attack while Climbing, you suffer 
Disadvantage on those Checks.

You don’t need to use this Skill if you’re climbing up a 
narrow flight of stairs. Probably not even when you’re 
fully roped in and tethered to other climbers. But if 
you’re racing, chasing, rappelling from a burning build‑
ing, or doing something dangerous while climbing, this 
is the Skill you want.
Make an Unopposed Skill Check every minute (not 
round). Depending on how extreme the circumstances 
are, the GM may apply Advantage (such as if you’ve 
previously already climbed it) or Disadvantage (you got 
no ropes) to the Check.
On Success, you are safe in your climb and make 
progress. See Special Forms of Movement p. 70, if the 
distance moved is important.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Make a Check every 5 minutes.
Rank 10: Make a Check every 10 minutes. You no 
longer Attack with Disadvantage while climbing.
Rank 1 5: Make a Check every 15 minutes. When other 
crawlers in your party roll this skill untrained, they roll 
as normal (not with Disadvantage).
COCKROACH
Constitution
Limitation: This Limited Skill can only be learned via 
a Race, Class, or item. Mark the skill for advancement 
until you reach Rank 5. After that, Ranks in this Skill 
only increase by magical means and training.
Cooldown: Once per scene
When an Attack would drop you to 0% Health Bar, roll 
an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, drop to 10% instead.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: No Skill Check required anymore.
Rank 10: The crawler’s Health Bar is unaffected by 
damage that would drop them to 0%.
Rank 1 5: Cooldown is twice per scene. When it trig‑
gers, the crawler heals to 100% and has +Rank DR 
until the end of the next round of combat.
COOKING
Intelligence
You are skilled in the culinary arts. Once you have 
your ingredients and 1 hour to prepare it, make an 
Unopposed Skill Check.4

--- PAGE 191 ---
On Success, you make edible food for you and your 
party.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: It takes you 30 minutes to prepare a meal with 
makeshift ingredients.
Rank 10: The diners gain the day‑long “You are full!” Buff: 
Heal 2 Health Bar slots per hour when not resting.
Rank 1 5: The “You are full!” Buff also causes Debuffs 
to end if you drop to 10% Health Bar.
DECEPTION
Charisma
If you know the truth but want to obscure it, this is the 
Skill for you. When you lie and try to get away with it, 
make an Int‑Opposed Skill Check. If the creature you’re 
lying to has the Detect Lies Skill, you make this Check 
with Disadvantage.
On Success, they believe you!
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can use this Skill while gambling.
Rank 10: You can use this Skill to forge documents.
Rank 1 5: You’re good enough to know when you’ve 
been caught. If you fail this Check, you may perform 
one Action before your foes can react.
DETECT LIES
Intelligence
You have an incredible bullshit detector. If you believe 
someone is trying to lie to you, make a Cha‑Opposed 
Skill Check. If they possess the Deception Skill, you 
make this Check with Disadvantage.
On Success, you sense if they’re lying, but if they believe 
they’re telling the truth, you sense they’re telling the truth.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: When you Fail, you still can’t detect the lie, but you 
can ignore the additional effects of a Major Fail or worse.
Rank 10: When you Fail, you can’t detect the lie, but 
you can ignore the effects of a Critical Fail.
Rank 1 5: You do not need to see the speaker, which 
allows you to detect lies in text and audio form.
DETECT TRAP
Intelligence
When you suspect a room, door, chest, or other object 
has an active trap, this is the Skill you want. Make an 

41
Unopposed Skill Check. Roll with Disadvantage when 
using this Skill to scan an entire room or while moving.
On Success, you are alerted to the presence of a 
non‑magic trap, which typically allows you to avoid 
triggering it.
On Fail, you sense nothing, and a trap may or may not 
be present.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can detect magical traps.
Rank 10: You no longer roll with Disadvantage when 
searching a broad area or while moving.
Rank 1 5: When you are aware of nearby traps, your 
party has Advantage on their first Check to avoid or 
escape the effects.
DETERMINE VALUE
Passive
Limitations: Ranks in this Skill only increase by 
magical means.
You can sort your HUD’s Inventory by item value. The 
actual gold value is not displayed.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your Inventory is tabbed to sort your items by 
type, and it includes a history tab that tracks your item 
usage and any former owners of an item.
Rank 10: You can determine what type of loot box the 
item would have come from.
Rank 1 5: Whenever you add a new item to your Inven‑
tory, the gold value of that item is displayed.
DIPLOMACY
Charisma
Used in mediation between opposing organizations 
and parties. Make an Int‑Opposed Skill Check of the 
side with the higher Int Mod.
On Success, the two parties are willing to discuss options.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Roll with Advantage if you are not a member 
of either party.
Rank 10: Each side accepts consequences if they 
break the deal.
Rank 1 5: Hostilities cease at least for the remainder of 
the day.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 192 ---
4
DODGE
Passive
Limitations: Mark the Skill for Advancement when 
Evading until you reach Rank 5. After that, Ranks in 
this Skill only increase by magical means and training.
You gain a +1 Evade Buff.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Gain a +1 Evade Buff, and you may Step an 
additional 5 feet when you perform the Evade Action.
Rank 10: Gain a +2 Evade Buff, and roll Evade with 
Advantage vs. Spells and Ranged Attacks.
Rank 1 5: Gain a +2 Evade Buff, and you may per‑
form the Evade Action without spending an Action in 
combat.
DOUBLE TAP
Passive
Limitations: To engage this Skill, you must declare a 
Double Tap at the start of the combat round, before 
Mob Actions have been determined. You must then 
use all of your Actions this round to Attack a single 
target with the same weapon or Spell. Mark this Skill 
for advancement anytime you roll an Amazing Success 
or better while using it.
If your first Attack is an Amazing Success or better, your 
second Attack (if it hits) is upgraded to a Critical Hit.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Roll your first Attack with Advantage.
Rank 10: If your first Attack is a Standard Success or 
better, the second Attack (if it hits) is upgraded to a 
Critical Hit.
Rank 1 5: Roll your second Attack with Advantage. If 
your second Attack is a Critical Hit or upgraded to one, 
deal ×3 damage (instead of ×2).
DRIVING
Dexterity
Limitations: If you Attack while Driving, you suffer 
Disadvantage on those Checks.
You don’t need this Skill if you’re casually driving down 
the road to pick up a quart of milk, but if you’re racing, 
chasing, showing off, or doing something dangerous in 
a vehicle, this is the Skill you want.
If you’re doing something wild or trying to avoid 
becoming a skid mark on the highway, make an Un‑
opposed Skill Check. Depending on how extreme the 

circumstances are, the GM may apply Advantage or 
Disadvantage to the Check.
On Success, you achieve your daredevil maneuver or 
avoid wrecking your vehicle.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You no longer suffer Disadvantage when 
attacking while Driving.
Rank 10: Your vehicle has +5ft Move. Roll with Ad‑
vantage to Evade Attacks against your vehicle.
Rank 1 5: Your vehicle has +5ft Move. When perform‑
ing crazy stunts (like driving on only your left‑side 
wheels), roll with Advantage.
DUMPSTER DIVING
Intelligence
Known as “scrounging” in some parts of the world.
This Skill bolsters your ability to search the clutter with‑
in the dungeon to find interesting bits of rubbish and 
maybe something useful. Using this Skill takes 1 hour 
and can only be performed once per 50‑foot‑square 
area. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you find what you were looking for or 
another interesting item, determined by the GM.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You also find 1 Rank damage die’s‑worth of 
Misc. Junk.
Rank 10: A Dumpster Dive takes 30 minutes. On a 
Critical Hit, you gain an additional interesting item.
Rank 1 5: A Dumpster Dive takes 10 minutes. On an 
Amazing Success, you gain an interesting item.
ENDURANCE
Constitution
Use this Skill to prevent fatigue while grinding, walking 
long distances (measured in miles), or other extended 
strenuous activities. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you may continue the activity and do not 
gain the Fatigued Debuff.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can ignore the effects of a Major Fail 
when making these Checks.
Rank 10: If you are not Fatigued or in extreme condi‑
tions, you make this Check with Advantage.
Rank 1 5: If your Check is a Critical Fail, you can take 
the effects of a Standard Fail.4

--- PAGE 193 ---
ENGINEERING
Intelligence
Limitations: Cannot create vehicles or high‑powered 
engines (see Gear Head for that p. 192).
This Skill is used to design and build things with 
moving parts, fluids, or chemicals wholly out of Misc. 
Junk with no inherent bonuses, though they may have 
situational bonuses. Examples include a watch, a water 
pump, or bullets. See Crafting p. 22 1.
Starting on the Fourth Floor, you may make use of an 
Engineering Table to make your mundane items easier 
to craft. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you create the item.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Choose a mundane item type to specialize 
in. You have Advantage when creating an item of that 
type.
Rank 10: You may craft your specialty item with a +1 
bonus level enchantment.
Rank 1 5: You may craft your specialty item with up to 
+2 bonus level enchantment, and it takes half the time.
ESCAPE ARTIST
Dexterity
Holy Houdini! While anyone can use Dexterity to wig‑
gle out of restraints or a hold, you’re especially skilled 
at the art of escape. When you try to escape from 
bonds or being Held, you can use this Skill.
When trying to escape bonds, make an Unopposed 
Skill Check.
To escape being Held, make a Str‑Opposed Skill 
Check. Based on the complexity or simplicity of what 
binds you, the GM may have you make the Check with 
Advantage or Disadvantage.
On Success, you escape your bonds or the creature 
holding you.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can escape your bonds, and no one sees 
you do it. If you escape being Held, you can then take 
a Step (also unseen).
Rank 10: When other crawlers in your party roll 
this skill untrained, they roll as normal (not with 
Disadvantage).
Rank 1 5: When you slip out, you may immediately take 
an Action with Advantage.

41
ESCAPE PLAN
Passive
Limitations: Ranks in this Skill only advance by magi‑
cal means.
Your HUD reveals hidden doors and passages, unless 
those passages were crafted by someone with more 
Ranks in Fabricate or Engineering than you have in this 
Skill or the passage is entirely natural.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You have access to system‑concealed dis‑
plays and the Dungeon Locator. Holographic signs 
pop up in your HUD, displaying insider information 
like signs at a zoo. Includes arrows toward City and 
stronger Bosses.
Rank 10: You are able to read hidden sigils (glowing 
blue circles) used by the showrunners to direct the 
movement of Mobs.
Rank 1 5: You are able to read hidden messages and 
redactions in dungeon documents.
EXPLOSIVES HANDLING
Intelligence
For making Attack Skill Checks with explosives (see 
Throwing, p. 200).
Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you safely handle standard explosive de‑
vices. On Fail, I’m sure the GM will think of something.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You are able to determine the type, status, 
and raw materials of explosives you handle.
Rank 10: You are able to craft explosives such as dy‑
namite as if this were a crafting Skill, though you must 
have explosive raw materials and a Sapper’s Table (see 
Crafting, p. 22 1).
Rank 1 5: You may create explosive raw materials out of 
non‑volatile materials. Your crafting takes half the time.
FABRICATE
Intelligence
Limitations: Cannot create things with moving parts, 
fluids, or chemicals.
Use this Skill to make generic, mundane items with no 
inherent bonuses wholly out of Misc. Junk, but your 
GM can give them situational bonuses.
Examples include a ladder, a 50ft rope, or a ceramic 
pot to store napalm. For items with moving parts, see 4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 194 ---
4
the Engineering Skill above instead. See Crafting, p. 
22 1. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you create the item.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Choose a mundane item to specialize in. You 
have Advantage when creating that item.
Rank 10: You may craft your specialty item with a +1 
bonus level enchantment.
Rank 1 5: You may craft your specialty item with up to 
+2 bonus level enchantment, and it takes half the time.
FIND CRAWLER
Passive
Limitations: Ranks in this Skill only increase by 
magical means.
Your HUD displays other crawlers within 1,000 feet of 
you. They are designated with a blue dot.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: The area in which you can detect other crawl‑
ers increases to 5 miles.
Rank 10: The area in which you can detect other 
crawlers increases to 10 miles.
Rank 1 5: You can input a specific crawler’s name and 
learn their exact location anywhere in the dungeon.
FIND TRAP
Passive
Limitations: Ranks in this Skill only increase by 
magical means and training.
Traps within 5 feet of you appear on your HUD one 
second prior to triggering the trap, which is often too 
late to react.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Traps appear on your HUD up to 5 seconds 
before they are triggered.
Rank 10: Traps within 10 feet of you appear on your 
HUD as you approach them.
Rank 1 5: Traps within 15 feet of you appear on your 
HUD as you approach them.
FIRST AID
Intelligence
Limitations: After you treat someone, you can’t treat 
them again until they complete a Short or Long Rest.

Give minor medical aid to yourself or someone else. 
Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, the patient regains 1 Health Bar slot. Each 
higher degree of Success heals 1 additional slot.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: If you spend 5 minutes, the patient also heals 
a Minor Injury Debuff.
Rank 10: If you spend 10 minutes, the patient also 
heals a Long‑Term Minor Injury Debuff.
Rank 1 5: The patient regains 1 additional Health Bar 
slot. If you spend 15 minutes, the patient also heals a 
Major Injury Debuff.
GEAR HEAD
Intelligence
Limitations: This Limited Skill can only be learned 
via a Race, Class, or item. Requires an Engine Stand 
attachment to an Engineering Table (2,000 gold).
You are proficient at building high‑performance engines, 
using the rules of Crafting (see p. 22 1). Each +5ft Move 
is a +1 Bonus Level at the default “10 + Bonus Level 
×4” Difficulty. The time it takes and Misc. Junk required 
uses the rules of crafting mundane items.
On Success, you have successfully built a custom engine.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You are able to add accessories to vehicles or 
even build your own custom vehicles. Use the rules of Engi‑
neering for crafting such things, but use this Skill and there 
are no bonus level limits to your custom‑crafted items.
Rank 10: Each +10ft Move is a +1 Bonus Level. You 
may use this Skill as a Repair Skill (see p. 197) when 
fixing engines.
Rank 1 5: Cut the time required to craft engines and 
vehicles you build around your engines in half.
GOBLIN EXPLOSIVES
Intelligence
For making Attack Skill Checks with explosives, see 
Throwing, p. 200.
Make an Unopposed Skill Check. Goblin Explosives are 
so unstable that Critical Fails occur on a Natural 1–4.
On Success, you safely use Goblin Explosive devices.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Critical Fail occurs on a Natural 3 or less. You 
are able to determine the type, status, and raw materi‑
als of Goblin Explosives you handle.4

--- PAGE 195 ---
Rank 10: Critical Fail occurs on a Natural 2 or less. You 
are able to craft explosives such as dynamite as if this 
were a crafting Skill, though you must have explosive raw 
materials and a Sapper’s Table. See Crafting on p. 22 1.
Rank 1 5: Critical Fail occurs on a Natural 1 as usual. 
You may create explosive raw materials out of non‑vol‑
atile materials with the use of a Sapper’s Table. Your 
crafting takes half the time.
GOOD FIRST IMPRESSION
Charisma
Limitations: This Skill doesn’t work on crawlers, 
Bosses, or Elites. You can only make a Skill Check 
against individuals, not groups.
When you encounter an NPC or Mob that is not 
immediately hostile or attacking, make an Int‑Opposed 
Skill Check.
On Success, the Mob approaches with wary curiosity.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: A Mob that is lower level than you won’t at‑
tack your party unless they are attacked by a member 
of your party.
Rank 10: A Mob that is up to double your level won’t 
attack your party unless they are attacked by you or an 
ally or your party is preventing them from completing 
their objective.
Rank 1 5: A group of Mobs of the same type up to 
double your level won’t attack your party unless they 
are attacked by a member of your party, or your party 
is preventing them from completing their objective.
HIDE IN SHADOWS
Dexterity
Limitations: To move while avoiding detection, see 
Stealth, p. 199.
While in a heavily shadowed area or out of sight, 
you can stay still and attempt to foil foes’ chances to 
spot you. Make an Int‑Opposed Skill Check. If you’re 
hiding behind an object that is larger than you, roll 
with Advantage.
On Success, you become invisible to Mobs and the 
HUDs of other crawlers but can still be affected by 
environmental and Area Attacks. You become visible 
if you take an Action that affects another creature or if 
you’re no longer behind cover.

41
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can use this Skill in a dim light without 
having an object to hide behind.
Rank 10: When other crawlers in your party roll 
this Skill untrained, they roll as normal (not with 
Disadvantage).
Rank 1 5: You can use this Skill in a lightly shaded area 
and may make a Step without giving away your position.
IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
Intelligence
Use this Skill to manipulate explosive material into 
bombs and traps without a Sapper’s Table. You literally 
can’t use one, so you’ll have to make an Explosives 
Handling Skill Check to avoid issues when crafting your 
device. Use the rules of Crafting on p. 22 1.
On Success, you create the device. Bombs and 
traps can have timers and triggering devices more 
sophisticated than a burning fuse.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your crafting takes half the time.
Rank 10: Your devices deal d10s of damage instead of 
d6s (the default).
Rank 1 5: Your devices can be set to trigger only 
against a specific Mob, Boss, NPC, or crawler.
INCENDIARY DEVICE HANDLING
Intelligence
For making Attack Skill Checks with incendiary devic‑
es, see Throwing, p. 200.
Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you are able to safely handle incendiary 
devices.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You are able to determine the type, status, 
and raw materials of incendiary devices you handle.
Rank 10: You are able to craft incendiary devices 
as if this were a crafting Skill, though you must have 
incendiary raw materials and a Sapper’s Table. See 
Crafting, p. 22 1.
Rank 1 5: Add a +5 Splash to your crafted device at 
no additional Difficulty, and your crafting takes half 
the time.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 196 ---
4
INFUSION
Intelligence
Limitations: Requires an Infusion Station attachment 
on an Alchemy Table or Tier 3 Sapper’s Table.
Use this Skill to infuse potion bonuses onto consum‑
able items. One potion can infuse one item. You’ll ei‑
ther need to learn Alchemy so you can craft your own 
potions, or find potions to transfer to consumables. 
Example: Infuse a Hobgoblin Smoke Curtain with an 
Invisibility potion to create a Hobgoblin Disco Ball. See 
Crafting, p. 22 1.
On Success, your consumable item now does more!
UPGRADES
Rank 5: One potion can infuse 2 items at once.
Rank 10: One potion can infuse 5 items at once.
Rank 1 5: One potion can infuse 10 items at once.
INTIMIDATE
Strength
You can use this Skill to scare the wits out of a foe. 
Make a Cha‑Opposed Skill Check. If either side has 
attacked or taken a hostile stance in this encounter, roll 
with Disadvantage.
On Success, the target gains the Staggered Debuff (p. 97).
UPGRADES
Rank 5: On Success or greater, until the end of the 
next round, the target can only use its remaining Ac‑
tions to move away from you (though it does not need 
to use its Step when doing so).
Rank 10: The target also gains the Woozy Debuff.
Rank 1 5: The target drops everything they were hold‑
ing and also gains the Paralyzed Debuff.
INVESTIGATION
Intelligence
You spend 10 minutes looking at an area or puzzle in 
front of you and might make heads or tails of it. Make 
an Unopposed Skill Check.
When you take the Look for Clues Action (p. 85), 
spend only one Action to use this Skill.
On Success, you learn something useful.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: If you’re familiar with the area you are investi‑
gating, you can make the Skill Check with Advantage.
Rank 10: Each attempt takes 5 minutes.

Rank 1 5: Roll with Advantage if you know the parties 
involved. Example: You know the puzzle’s maker, or 
you know the murder victim and the main suspect.
IRON STOMACH
Constitution
Eat magic items for fun and profit! But beware of 
cursed items, as they could have negative effects. 
Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you eat the item. It is destroyed, as the 
shitter will be tomorrow morning.
On an Amazing Success or better, gain 1 permanent 
Intelligence.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: On a Critical Hit, gain 1 additional permanent 
Intelligence.
Rank 10: On a Standard Success or better, gain 1 
permanent Intelligence. You may eat cursed items with 
no ill effects.
Rank 1 5: You choose which Stat is permanently 
increased.
JUMPING
Strength
With a running start of at least 10 feet (made as a 10‑
foot Step with this Action), you leap through the air in 
an arcing trajectory. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you leap a distance in feet up to your 
Rank + Str with a height of 1ft.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Add your Dex to the height of your Jump.
Rank 10: You gain a +1 Evade Buff.
Rank 1 5: Your leap distance in feet is Rank + [Str ×2].
LEADERSHIP
Charisma
You are skilled at coordinating two or more separate 
parties during fights against Bosses. Make an Int‑Op‑
posed Skill Check.
On Success, the parties have Advantage on their first 
Attack against the Boss.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may instead use this Skill during Skill 
challenges while on a group Quest. Perform a free Call 
a Play Action, and it extends to each member of the 
parties during their next non‑combat Skill Check.4

--- PAGE 197 ---
Rank 10: Instead of Advantage, anyone in the parties 
may perform a free Move Action.
Rank 1 5: Instead of Advantage, anyone in the parties 
may perform a free Evade Action.
LIGHT ON YOUR FEET
Dexterity
Limitations: Usable only by animals
With a running start of at least 10 feet (made as a 10ft 
Step with this Skill), you leap through the air in an arc‑
ing trajectory. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you leap a distance in feet up to your 
Rank ×2 with a height equal to your Dex ×2 in feet.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your distance is Rank ×3 and your height is 
Dex ×3.
Rank 10: You may leap without an arcing trajectory, 
which allows for “straight up.”
Rank 1 5: Your leap may last up to your Rank in sec‑
onds, which resembles gliding.
LOCKPICKING
Dexterity
Limitations: Roll with Disadvantage if you do not 
have the proper tools, unless it’s a crude lock.
You spend the Floor number in minutes trying to pick 
the lock. Make an Unopposed Skill Check (more com‑
plex locks may have a higher Difficulty, as determined 
by the GM). If the lock was created by a named antago‑
nist, this could be an Int‑Opposed Skill Check instead.
On Success, you pick the lock!
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You make no noise and leave no trace.
Rank 10: Each attempt takes half the time. You may 
alter the lock so that the key no longer works.
Rank 1 5: You don’t roll with Disadvantage if you lack 
the proper tools.
LORE
Intelligence
You have studied the goings‑on in the Dungeon and 
have figured out a thing or two. Make an Unopposed 
Skill Check.
On Success, you know a little something about a 
neighborhood, some of the Mobs, or how to avoid 
pissing off the locals.

41
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can identify the major factions in the area.
Rank 10: You are aware of the important local NPCs. 
Just give your GM a break and don’t demand this all 
up front or the first one you come across will likely 
attack you.
Rank 1 5: You roll with Advantage on your first Charis‑
ma‑based Skill Check when encountering an organized 
group in a neighborhood.
NEGOTIATION
Charisma
Limitations: Does not work on members of your own 
party. Some items have a minimum price.
You spend 5 minutes haggling over the price of items 
or negotiating to get what you want through compro‑
mise. Typically, haggling is done with an NPC merchant 
when you’re buying or selling items. If you haggle with 
other entities, you do so with Disadvantage. Make an 
Int‑Opposed Skill Check.
On Success, you increase or decrease the price 10% in 
your favor. If you’re not haggling, the opponent tenta‑
tively agrees to your terms.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your party members can also buy or sell at 
your newly‑negotiated price.
Rank 10: Increase or decrease the price by an addi‑
tional 10% in your favor.
Rank 1 5: Increase or decrease the price by an addi‑
tional 15% in your favor.
PATHFINDER
Passive
Limitations: Ranks in this Skill only increase by magi‑
cal means and training.
Your HUD map zooms out with a thought, the breadth 
of which is determined by a multiplier equal to your 
Rank. Example: Rank 4 means your map covers ×4 the 
standard area (1/4 of a square mile), which makes it 
extend to 1 mile around you.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You are notified when you are near a safe‑
room or stairwell.
Rank 10: You can see through your map while it is 
open in your HUD.
Rank 1 5: Mobs appear as red dots on your HUD map.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 198 ---
4
PERCEPTION
Intelligence
You concentrate your senses to pick out details about 
your environment that others might miss. Make an Un‑
opposed Skill Check, though the GM will likely adjust 
the Difficulty based on the lighting, how cluttered the 
area is, how quickly an event occurs, and other such 
circumstances.
Also use Perception when you take a Look for Clues 
Action (p. 85).
On Success, you notice something. It could be import‑
ant; it might not be.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Halve the penalty for cluttered areas.
Rank 10: Halve the penalty for how short of a window 
you have to notice the thing.
Rank 1 5: Halve the penalty for the range to the thing.
PERFORMANCE
Charisma
Whether you’re acting, dancing, playing an instrument, 
singing, or delivering slam poetry, use this Skill when 
you want to electrify an audience. Choose a type of 
performance to specialize in as your starting type, be 
it comedy, guitar, screamo, or reciting the collected 
works of Alan Ginsberg.
Make an Unopposed Skill Check to determine the 
audience reaction. If you are competing against other 
performers, add the top rival’s Cha to the Difficulty.
On Success, you command the stage. The audience is 
entertained.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Choose an additional type of performance to 
specialize in.
Rank 10: Choose an additional type of performance. 
You can coach and coordinate others in one of your 
specialties. After coaching them for at least 1 hour in 
one of your specialties, they can attempt an unskilled 
Performance Skill Check without Disadvantage.
Rank 1 5: Choose an additional type of performance. 
You can mimic someone else’s performance after 
experiencing it once.

PERSUASION
Charisma
You have a knack for getting others to see things your 
way. You typically need about 10 minutes of schmooz‑
ing in a safe environment to make a Check with this 
Skill, and you may suffer Disadvantage if the request is 
risky, inconvenient, or untoward. Make an Int‑Opposed 
Skill Check.
On Success, you convince the target to follow your 
suggestion if it isn’t too costly for them, too danger‑
ous, or against their nature.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: They’ll follow your suggestion even if it is 
costly for them.
Rank 10: They’ll follow your suggestion even if it is 
dangerous.
Rank 1 5: They’ll follow your suggestion even if it’s 
against their nature.
REGENERATION
Passive
If your Rank in this Skill is equal to or greater than your 
Con, you heal 1 Health Bar slot at the start of each 
round (or every 10 seconds outside of combat). If not, 
you heal 1 Health Bar slot every other round (or every 
20 seconds outside of combat).4

--- PAGE 199 ---
UPGRADES
Rank 5: After 5 minutes, any Minor Injury Debuff you 
suffer from ends. After 10 minutes, any Major Injury 
Debuff you suffer from ends.
Rank 10: After 20 minutes, any Long‑Term Minor 
Injury Debuff you suffer from ends. After 1 hour, any 
Long‑Term Major Injury Debuff you suffer from ends.
Rank 1 5: The time required to end injury Debuffs is 
halved.
RELIGION
Intelligence
You have a knack for understanding gods, their follow‑
ers, and what makes them tick. Make an Unopposed 
Skill Check.
On Success, you know the basic information about a 
god and the practices of their followers.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can identify the followers on sight, even if 
they’re trying to hide their affiliation.
Rank 10: You know how to sow discord among the 
followers of that religion.
Rank 1 5: You know strengths and weakness of the 
gods.
REPAIR
Intelligence
Limitations: For basic repairs to items with no moving 
parts, magical or not.
After spending 2 hours, you can repair most simple 
items that are broken or damaged but not destroyed. 
Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you repair the item.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can make repairs to things with moving 
parts.
Rank 10: You can make repairs in 1 hour.
Rank 1 5: You can rebuild a destroyed item.
RIDING
Dexterity
Limitations: The rider in control of the mount rolls 
Attack Skill Checks with Disadvantage.
While mounted on a living beast, you can ride to the 
local watering hole without needing to make a Check. 

41
But during an action scene or when exploring Giant 
Gopher Hole Flats, your mount might panic, and you 
might get tossed for 1d6 bludgeoning for every 10ft 
Move your mount has, plus its size value. Don’t land in 
a cactus patch! Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, your mount doesn’t stumble, and you 
stay upright.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your mount has +5ft Move. You no longer 
suffer Disadvantage when attacking while Riding.
Rank 10: Your mount has an additional +10ft Move. 
When other crawlers in your party roll this Skill un‑
trained, they roll as normal (not with Disadvantage).
Rank 1 5: Your mount has an additional +15ft Move. 
When performing crazy stunts (like jumping through 
flames), roll with Advantage.
ROPEWORK
Dexterity
You know a half hitch from a clove hitch, and the quali‑
ties of hemp vs. nylon (we had to look it up). Sadly, this 
knowledge is mostly used to tie people up so you can 
tor—interrogate them, but you’re going to buck that 
trend, right? Just climbing and cattle‑rustling for you!
Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you rope the thing with a good knot.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can now use this Skill as an Attack, at a 
Range of 10ft vs. the target’s Evade. On Success, the 
target gains the Held Debuff.
Rank 10: You can whip your line in that special way to 
untie a knot you made and recover your rope.
Rank 1 5: Your Attack now has a Range of your 
Strength (min 15). Just make sure your rope is long 
enough.
RUNNING
Dexterity
Limitations: For short bursts of running. For extended 
runs, use Endurance instead (p. 190).
You don’t need to use this Skill if you’re running down a 
hallway to attack some Mobs. But if you’re racing, chas‑
ing, or need to get away from a ticking time bomb, this 
is the Skill you want. See Racing & Chasing, p. 73.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 200 ---
4
Make an Unopposed Skill Check every minute, not every 
round. Add 1 to your result for every 10ft of Move you have.
On Success, you succeed in the run.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You have a permanent +5ft Move Buff. Make 
a Check every 2 minutes.
Rank 10: You have an additional permanent +10ft 
Move Buff. Make a Check every 4 minutes.
Rank 1 5: You have an additional permanent +15ft 
Move Buff. Make a Check every 6 minutes.
SAL VAGE
Intelligence
Limitations: Salvage cannot be used with explosive 
devices.
Salvage is the art of collecting useful items from things 
you have deconstructed or failed to properly craft. See 
Crafting, p. 22 1.
Salvaging usually takes 1 hour to accomplish. At the 
end of that time, make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you recover half of the important raw materials.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your Salvage Checks take 30 minutes.
Rank 10: On Success, you recover all of the important 
raw materials.
Rank 1 5: On a crafting Standard Fail or Near Miss, 
roll your crafting Check again with Advantage, with an 
additional 15‑minute time expenditure.
SCUTELLIPHIL Y
Intelligence
Limitations: This Limited Skill can only be learned via 
a Race, Class, or item.
You know your way around patches and love collecting 
them. Make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you are able to identify a patch and its 
bonus level, if any.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can sew and iron patches onto clothing 
using this Skill.
Rank 10: You may use this as a crafting Skill, but 
crafting tables provide no bonuses. Enchanted patches 
are limited to one per Gear slot and do not take up 
Accessory slots. See Crafting, p. 22 1.

Rank 1 5: Your crafting Checks take half the time. In‑
crease the bonus value of your enchantments with this 
Skill by 1, at no additional Difficulty or time to craft. 
Example: If you craft a +2 Strength patch, it becomes 
a +3 Strength patch.
SHIELD BLOCK
Strength, Interrupt
Limitations: Requires you to be wielding a shield. 
Cannot be used against Area of Effect damage. A suc‑
cessful Shield Block still counts as “a hit crawler” or “a 
crawler who failed to Evade.”
You’re one of those types. You like a big slab of wood 
or metal between you and the beasties. When you 
are attacked by a physical Attack, spend one Action 
to make a separate Shield Block Skill Check vs. the 
Mob’s “to hit” for each of the Attacks targeting you. 
If 3 physical Attacks are directed at you, roll this Skill 
Check 3 times. Where an Evade Check is called for, ask 
your GM if you can use this Skill.
On Success, take half the damage before applying 
your DR. Your Shield takes a ‑1 DR penalty on a Major 
Fail; ‑2 on a Critical Fail. It breaks at 0 DR. However, a 
broken shield and lost DR can be Repaired.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may also use this Skill against Spells and 
magical damage.
Rank 10: On a Critical Hit, you may make a Shield 
Bash Attack as a free melee‑range Interrupt Attack 
(instead of Advantage on your next Attack) if you wish, 
dealing 3d6 base damage + Str Bludgeoning.
Rank 1 5: +1d6 Shield Bash damage. Further reduce 
the damage you would take by your Str Mod. Example: 
After halving 30 damage down to 15, your Str Mod of 
5 reduces it to 10 damage.
SLEIGHT OF HAND
Dexterity
Limitations: Items you manipulate must be smaller 
than the size of your hand. You cannot access others’ 
Inventories or Hotlists.
You’ve learned to manipulate small objects without being 
spotted. Great for shoplifting. Make an Int‑Opposed Skill 
Check. If someone’s Perception is a higher Rank than 
your Sleight of Hand, you have Disadvantage.
On Success, you maneuver the item without being noticed.4

--- PAGE 201 ---
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may attempt to pick the pockets of NPCs 
and Mobs.
Rank 10: You may attempt to plant items on someone 
with pockets or the equivalent.
Rank 1 5: You may manipulate items up to half your 
own size (rounded down).
SMITHING
Strength
You may craft mundane items such as horseshoes, 
railroad spikes, nails, or the fun stuff: armor and 
weapons, but without DR or any bonuses. See Crafting, 
p. 22 1.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may craft items up to a +5 bonus.
Rank 10: You may craft items up to a +10 bonus.
Rank 1 5: Your crafting with this Skill takes half the time.
STEALTH
Dexterity
Limitations: You must be out of sight of all foes to 
begin this Check.
Use this Skill if you want to move undetected or sur‑
prise a Mob. Make an Int‑Opposed Skill Check.
On Success before combat starts, you are unnoticed 
and gain 1 non‑Attack Action. Don’t forget to take 
your 10ft Step!
On Success in a non‑combat situation, you remain 
unnoticed and can perform a Move Action with a 10ft 
Step as part of this Check.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your surprise Action can be an Attack with 
Advantage.
Rank 10: When other crawlers in your party roll this Skill 
untrained, they roll as normal (not with Disadvantage).
Rank 1 5: On a successful Surprise Check, you may 
also take a full Move and Step. If you Attack with your 
Surprise Action, deal ×2 the base damage dice.
STREETWISE
Charisma
Use this Skill in populated areas to learn or spread ru‑
mors, avoid attracting too much attention, gain access 
to less‑than‑legal items, and the like. Make an Unop‑
posed Skill Check.

41
On Success, you navigate a town without attracting 
attention, deal with a criminal network, identify an informal 
power structure, or gain the information you’re seeking.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You also hear an additional rumor, as deter‑
mined by the GM. Or spread one!
Rank 10: You also quickly find a hiding place deter‑
mined by the GM.
Rank 1 5: You also uncover information that might give 
you some leverage on an important person in town 
determined by the GM.
SURVIVAL
Constitution
You know how to survive in dangerous, often remote 
places for long periods of time with only the meager 
food and water you can rustle up. When traveling 
through such areas, make an Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you survive the perils of the conditions 
unscathed. On a standard Fail, you suffer the effects of 
hunger and/or thirst (see p. 76).
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You do not suffer additional damage from a 
Critical Fail.
Rank 10: When other crawlers in your party roll 
this Skill untrained, they roll as normal (not with 
Disadvantage).
Rank 1 5: You do not suffer additional damage from a 
Major Fail.
SWIMMING
Strength
Limitations: After 1 minute of Swimming (Success or 
Fail) or immediately on a Major Fail or worse, gain the 
Fatigued Debuff.
Use this Skill when there are consequences for not 
swimming strongly or well rather than when you’re 
taking a casual swim. For instance, if you’re racing for 
your life, swimming against a strong current, or trying 
to get to shore to avoid a waterfall. In these cases, 
make an Unopposed Skill Check every 30 seconds.
On Success, you swim well despite the danger. For 
swimming during combat, see Special Forms of Move-
ment, p. 70.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: After 2 minutes of Swimming (Success or 
Fail), gain the Fatigued Debuff.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 202 ---
4
Rank 10: You can swim at your full Move rate as an 
Action, but you still can’t take a 10ft Step.
Rank 1 5: Make this Check every 5 minutes, and only 
gain the Fatigue Debuff on a Critical Fail.
TACTICS
Intelligence
Limitations: A crawler may attempt this Skill Check 
only once per combat.
Your tactical mind and directions can spur your allies 
to victory. Choose one of the following combat disci‑
plines: Attack, Damage, or Evade, and then make an 
Unopposed Skill Check.
On Success, you and each member of your party 
gain a +1 bonus to Checks for the chosen discipline. 
Increase the bonus by +1 for each higher degree of 
Success.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: If you observe the foes and battlefield for at 
least 5 minutes prior to combat, roll this Skill Check 
with Advantage.
Rank 10: After using this Skill during a combat, you 
roll 2d10 when you Call a Play (still choose one die).
Rank 1 5: The bonus applies to all three combat disci‑
plines instead of just one.
TATTOO ARTISTRY
Dexterity
Used to stick and poke ink under someone’s skin to 
create a mundane tattoo. See Crafting, p. 22 1 for mag‑
ical tattoos.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may craft tattoos with up to a +5 bonus.
Rank 10: You may craft tattoos with up to a +10 bonus.
Rank 1 5: Your crafting with this Skill takes half the time.
TAUNT
Charisma, Interrupt
With a shout, some choice words, and maybe an 
obscene hand gesture, you attempt to draw the ire of 
enemies within 30 feet of you. After seeing where the 
Mob Attacks are headed, make an Int‑Opposed Skill 
Check.

On Success, Taunt one Attack of your choosing away 
from any target of your choosing and onto you. Higher 
degrees of Success allow you to Taunt additional 
Attacks onto you.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may make a free Evade Check against 
each Taunted Attack (roll separately vs. each Attack 
as usual). Then you may still spend an Action to Evade 
other Attacks and reroll any Fails from your free 
Evades.
Rank 10: You can affect Mobs within 60 feet.
Rank 1 5: Your free Evade Checks against Taunted 
Attacks are made with Advantage.
THROWING
Strength
This Skill is used for passing the pigskin with your pops 
or throwing dynamite (potentially also at your pops).
You can Throw an object that weighs up to your Str in 
pounds at a distance of up to your Str ×10 feet. If you 
want to Throw a heavier or bulkier item (up to the GM’s 
discretion), you do so with Disadvantage.
To hit a target area, make an Unopposed Skill Check.
To hit a foe with an object, make an Attack Skill Check 
vs. the target’s Evade.
On Success, you hit the target.
1
82
73
64
Figure 34
5

--- PAGE 203 ---
On Fail, roll 1d8 for direction (see Figure 3). The 
amount the Skill Check missed by is the distance away 
in feet it lands.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You have Advantage when Throwing to a 
target who wants to catch what you are selling.
Rank 10: Choose the direction on a miss, rather than roll.
Rank 1 5: Your Throw range is your Str ×20 feet.
TRACKING
Intelligence
Use this Skill to find and follow tracks. When searching 
for or attempting to follow tracks, make an Unopposed 
Skill Check. Factors such as how long ago the tracks 
were made, the ground conditions, and whether other 
tracks or marks obscure them may influence the Dif‑
ficulty. Once you find tracks, you must make another 
Tracking Check every 15 minutes to continue following 
them.
On Success, you either find the tracks or continue 
following them.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You can follow found tracks for 30 minutes 
before making a new Check, and gain 1 piece of infor‑
mation about the target(s).
Rank 10: You can follow found tracks for 1 hour before 
making a new Check, and gain 2 pieces of information 
about the target(s).
Rank 1 5: You can follow found tracks for 2 hours 
before making a new Check, and gain 4 pieces of infor‑
mation about the target(s).
TRAP ENGINEER
Intelligence
Used to craft traps via a Sapper’s Table with a Trap 
Module (3,000 gold). See Crafting, p. 22 1.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Roll with Advantage when making non‑explo‑
sive traps.
Rank 10: Your traps can be set to trigger only against 
a specific Mob, Boss, NPC, or crawler.
Rank 1 5: Add a +5 Splash to your trap at no addition‑
al Difficulty, and your crafting takes half the time.

41
ZONE OF CONTROL
Passive
Limitations: You must be wielding a Reach weapon.
Once per round, when an enemy enters a space 
adjacent to you for the first time, you may perform an 
Interrupt Attack against them at a cost of one Action. 
Make the Attack with Disadvantage.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: Your Attack is no longer made with 
Disadvantage.
Rank 10: The target is pushed 5 feet.
Rank 1 5: Make your Attack Skill Check with Advantage.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 204 ---
4
Spells
Spells are the strange, dangerous, and occasionally 
irresponsible way crawlers bend reality. Some Spells 
heal wounds or reshape the battlefield, and others 
exist primarily to make something stop moving—
permanently. Spells cannot be attempted untrained 
except via a scroll.
Every Spell listed in this section follows the same 
core rules for things like casting, targeting, and spend-
ing Mana. Spell listings include a variety of terms or 
fields associated with them, including:
Name: The name of the Spell appears as a headline to 
the entry.
Type: Whether the Spell is an Attack or Passive is noted 
under the flavor text. The type of damage delivered 
from Attack Spells is also listed here for quick reference. 
Spells default to your Int Mod for to-hit and damage 
rolls. If a different Stat is listed here, that Stat is used to 
hit and damage, but Spells all still use Intelligence for 
Mana. If the spell is Favored by any particular Classes, 
other Classes pay 1 additional Mana to cast it.
Mana Cost: The Mana cost to cast the Spell.
Range: The range of the Spell. Melee means 5ft 
(adjacent).
Duration: Some Spells are not instantaneous. When 
the duration is reached, the Spell effect wears off at 
the end of that round.
AI Favor: Low-damage Spells grant AI Favor to you if you 
use such a wimpy attack for a majority of your attacks 
during a combat that lasts for at least three rounds.
Limitations: If there are conditions, requirements, or 
exclusions, they go here.
Cooldown: If the Spell has a cooldown, it is listed 
here. You can’t cast the Spell during its cooldown.
Description: Any notes or descriptions of the general 
effect seen when you cast the Spell are listed here. If the 
Spell requires a Spell Check, that is also provided here.
Base Damage: This is the damage the Spell deals with 
1–4 Ranks in the Spell. You add your Int to the base 
damage, unless it says otherwise. The damage type is 
listed here as well.
Upgrades: These are bonuses you gain when you 
reach the listed Rank in the Spell. The first entry of 

each benefit adds a damage die of the same type to 
the base damage of the Spell. Additional damage dice 
and effects are also listed here.
SPELLS IN YOUR HOTLIST
Don’t forget that Spells need to be in your Hotlist 
to cast them in combat or other stressful situations. 
Write down the specific combat text for your Spell in 
the “Attacks” section on the front of your character 
sheet. When you write a Spell on your Hotlist, you 
need only list additional notes like the Mana cost and 
Range of the Spell.
Attack Spells require you to make an Attack Skill 
Check vs. the target’s Evade. Spells that don’t require 
a Check to be made when cast (non-Attack Spells) 
are tagged as Passive and simply happen, but those 
are not marked for Skill Advancement (p. 169) when 
used. Instead, their Ranks must be raised via magical 
means or trained at a guild.
CREATING YOUR OWN 
SPELLS
In the ways that count, Spells are just a special type 
of Skill. Create them in the same way as you’re 
create a Skill (p. 174–175).
LIST OF SPELLS
AIR BUDDY
“There’s no dungeon rule that a dog can’t fly.”
Passive, Favored: Mage
Mana Cost: 12
Range: Self
You launch yourself with enough force to fly, hurtling for‑
ward from your current position up to 10 × your Int Mod 
away. You land safely if you land on solid ground; other‑
wise, you fall (see p. 76). You can cast this twice in a row 
to “double jump” just like in platforming video games.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may choose one additional willing target 
up to your size at touch range, who you bring with you.
Rank 10: You can fly up to 20 × your Int Mod away 
with this spell.
Rank 1 5: You may choose up to five additional willing 
targets up to your size at touch range to bring with you.4