--- PAGE 79 ---
Mark (playing Venus): Seriously! Nonetheless, we’ve 
gotta survive for the next two weeks or so with the 
hunters. Should we find a place to hunker down, or 
stay on the move?
Marianne (playing Michelle): I vote we find a place 
to set up shop. Somewhere we can defend easily, and 
that has several good escape routes.
Anisha (playing Wren): I like the idea of stability, but 
there are likely to be hundreds of hunters out there, 
and there are only 5 of us. Not sure I’m keen to sit 
where they can swarm us and see which hunter gets 
my skull above their head.
Marianne: Fair enough. Then let’s at least try to scout 
around so we know what we can use to our advantage.
Jose (playing Henry): I’ve got this! My Marine training 
gave me several Ranks in Survival. I should be able to 
make a Check to get at least some information about 
the plants and such in the area, right, Theresa?
Theresa: I could see Survival working, but since 
you’re thinking about it instead of resisting it, let’s go 
Int Survival Skill Check. Either with an Unopposed 
Success or Failure, you’re going to remember things 
that you’re sure are true.
OFF-STAT CHECKS
The Survival Skill is usually associated with a crawler’s 
Con since it’s used to resist hazardous environments. 
Since Henry is thinking about the potential dangers, 
Theresa decides the Skill applies, but Jose must add 
Henry’s Int Mod instead of Con (see Determine the 
Approach, p. 58). With each Check, Theresa points out 
the cost of Failure so the players can decide whether 
they really want to make the Check.
Jose: That’s a Difficulty 22 since we’re on the Sixth 
Floor, right?
Theresa: Right.
Jose: Okay, 15 on the die, 3 for Int, and 8 Ranks of 
Survival for a 26.
Theresa: With that simple Success, you can identify 
several large rubber and Brazil nut trees, which could 
serve as a food source, as well as a few strangler figs 
trying to choke the life out of the host trees.
Marianne: Can I take a look at the buildings 
to determine their condition? Are they going 
to come down on our heads, or are they 
relatively stable?

21
Jose: Don’t give the GM any ideas!
Theresa: It’s okay, I already thought of that possibility. Go 
ahead and make an Engineering Skill Check, Marianne.
Marianne: Ugh, it’s a 12.
Theresa: You are absolutely certain that all of the ruins 
are completely stable. Whatever parts would be at 
risk have already fallen to rubble. No sooner do you 
come to that conclusion than a chunk of concrete the 
size of a Volkswagen falls from the eighth story of one 
of the buildings, shaking the earth as it crashes to the 
ground, and kicking up a ton of concrete and plaster 
dust in the area.
Anisha: Yeah… I’m thinking you’re wrong about that 
assessment. And breathing that stuff in can’t be good 
for our lungs.
Mark: We can always cover our faces with a damp 
cloth. But it’ll be hard to fight that way if we run into 
trouble. Can I make something we can wear to filter 
our breathing air?2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 80 ---
2
Theresa: Sure, that’s pretty simple. Since a protective 
mask would be Size 2, it would take you 4 hours to 
craft one in the dungeon. It would give you Advantage 
on any Checks against gas or dust. You could also 
search through your Inventory and decide that some 
of your Misc. Junk is a medical or painter mask, which 
would give you +2 on Checks against gas or dust.
CRAFTING IN THE DUNGEON
Most crafting takes place in personal spaces at work‑
benches, but if those are not available, the crawlers 
will make what they can while in a dangerous area. 
Due to the mask being Size 2, it takes 4 hours to craft 
one. See Crafting (p. 221) for more details.
Mark: Oof, that’s a lot of time. Even with each of us 
making Fabricate Checks separately, I don’t think we 
want to stay in one place that long. It’s just asking for 
the hunters to jump us.
Marianna: Jose was already against spending one 
hour, let alone four.
Jose: That’s right. Besides, you don’t make it onto the 
recap by spending hours crafting. We need to act!
Theresa: Alright, so what’s the plan, crawlers?
PARTY DECISIONS
When the party faces a choice that not everyone 
agrees with, it’s important for the players to decide —
and sometimes for their crawlers to discuss in role‑
play —as a group. This group prefers to make decisions 
democratically, so with three deciding that it takes too 
long, they decide as a group to make the masks out of 
Misc. Junk rather than spend the time crafting.

Anisha: I’ve got to agree with Jose. Four hours is just 
too much. I’ll spend the Misc. Junk as a quick fix.
Marianne: Yeah, Michelle has plenty in her Inventory, 
so I’ll do that, too.
Mark: Sounds good to me, but I haven’t been tracking 
Misc. Junk. Can one of our hoarders find one for me?
Marianne: Sure, I’ve got plenty.
Jose: Not me. I’m going to prove to you and the 
audience that Henry’s Marine training is more than a 
match for a bunch of overgrown house dust!
Theresa: Alright, with your masks in place, you contin-
ue through the ruins. Where are you going?
Mark: We probably should have figured that out 
before walking in. But since we want to stay on the 
move, maybe we should try finding other crawlers to 
join up with. Safety in numbers and all that.
Anisha: I just got Find Crawler, too. Do we want to 
start there?
Mark: Be my guest.
Theresa: This is a great time for Find Crawler. Since it’s 
a Passive Skill, you don’t need to roll. When you acti-
vate it, you see a group of 6 blue dots on your HUD 
about 600 feet ahead of you and to your right, deeper 
into the ruins and rubble off the road.
PASSIVE SKILLS
Passive Skills don’t require a Skill Check to perform 
and don’t advance like other Skills. Each Passive Skill 
listing in Crawlers & Customization notes how the 
Skill increases in Rank.
Anisha: Alright, let’s go.
Theresa: Before you start heading in, are you chang-
ing your marching order?
Jose: Since my Survival Skill gave us the information 
we needed before we walked in, and I have the high-
est Perception, Henry can be the lead if that’s alright 
with everyone else.
Anisha: Wren can be up there with him in case we 
run into trouble.
Marianne: Michelle’s in the middle, where it’s safest.
Daniel: I guess that makes Chase the rear guard.
Mark: Venus is in the middle with Michelle.2

--- PAGE 81 ---
MARCHING ORDER
As the party heads into a potentially hazardous 
environment, determining the Marching Order helps 
the GM determine who’ll be in trouble as unexpected 
things happen —like Chase and Wren might be the 
first ones to walk into a trap, or a ferocious group of 
Mushroom Maniacs might come up from behind to 
snack on Park first.
Theresa: The ground tremors slightly at the ruins’ 
entrance, and the tremors worsen significantly as the 
party advances further inside. A thunderous CRACK 
sounds from above as chunks of wall and flooring 
fall from the buildings, shattering into the ground and 
erupting into the same stifling dust from earlier. The 
dust conceals the area like fog, and I’d like everyone to 
make a Con Stat Check to resist breathing it in. With 
Advantage if you have one of the working masks.
Anisha: I rolled a 2 and a 13. With Advantage, I keep 
the 13 and add +4 for Con, which makes it a total of 
17 for Wren.
Marianne: I rolled a 5 and 2. So with the 5 and +3 
Con for Michelle, I’ve got a total of 8. So much for 
that mask.
Daniel: Chase’s mask must be defective. I got a 4.
Mark: 16 for Venus.
Jose: And I rolled a 19, for a total of 27! I told you I’d 
be able to tough it out!
STAT CHECKS
Since this roll is to resist an effect, no Skill applies, 
and the crawlers only add their Stat Mod to their 
total. Stat Checks generally have a lower Difficulty 
than Skill Checks, see Stat Checks in Determining the 
Difficulty (p. 59).
Theresa: Venus and Wren resist the effects of the 
dust, and Henry just takes a deep breath to spite the 
showrunners, feeling no ill effects! Chase and Michelle 
start coughing violently; you both have the Poisoned 
and Woozy Debuffs until cured. And you’re going to 
have to wait to treat that because you hear the scrap-
ing of claws against stone above you.
Jose: Here we go again!

21
Combat
One of the most common activities crawlers engage 
in is combat, as nearly every other living thing (and 
many unliving things) in the dungeon is constantly 
trying to kill them. Combat is one of the most struc-
tured parts of the game to ensure every player has 
their opportunity in the spotlight and for their crawlers 
to survive.
DEGREES OF SUCCESS IN 
COMBAT
In combat, the degrees of Success have additional 
mechanical significance for Attack Skill Checks (see 
Attacks, Step 4) and Evade Checks (see the Evade 
Action, Step 2).
SUCCESS
Meeting or beating the Difficulty is a Success. It gener-
ally indicates progress toward a goal.
Natural 20 (Critical Hit): On a roll of a Natural 20 (a 
20 on the die without any modifiers), the player rolls 
twice as many base damage dice and then adds their 
crawler’s Stat Mod and other Buffs to the damage. If 
an effect multiplies the “total damage,” that includes 
the results from the extra Critical Hit dice.
If the crawler achieves a Natural 20 on an Evade 
Check, they gain Advantage on their next Attack Skill 
Check against that Mob. And it’s probably good for 
their self-esteem, too.
Success by 10 or more (Amazing Success): The 
crawler’s Attack deals extra damage equal to their 
current Floor Number.
If the crawler achieves an Amazing Success on an 
Evade Check, they also gain Advantage on their 
Attack Skill Check against that Mob.
Success by 0–9 (Standard Success): This is the most 
basic Successful result. For Attack Skills, a Standard 
Success means the crawler hits and rolls damage.
FAILURE
A result under the Difficulty or target number is a 
Failure. The GM ultimately decides what happens, 
based on the degree of Failure and the current 
situation.2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 82 ---
2
Fail by 1–2 (Near Miss Fail): A Failure, but there’s still 
a chance to save the effort. When this result occurs, 
the GM announces a “Near Miss” to allow other play-
ers to help with an Intervene Action during combat 
(see Crawler Reaction Phase, p. 81).
Fail by 3–9 (Standard Fail): This is a normal Failure, 
such as missing a target or failing to (or declining to) 
Evade an Attack.
Fail by 10 or more (Major Fail): A Failure to this 
degree comes with some manner of consequence, 
such as dropping a weapon or other important piece 
of equipment, losing footing (reducing Movement), 
running out of ammunition, or other penalty.
Achieving a Major Fail on an Evade Check, the crawler 
exposes a vulnerable spot which the Mob strikes. The 
crawler suffers additional damage from the Attack equal 
to the current Floor Number and gains a Minor Injury 
Debuff after combat, once the adrenaline wears off.
Natural 1 (Critical Fail): On a roll of a Natural 1 (a 1 
on the die without any modifiers), the crawler suffers 
the worst possible outcome. Consequences might 
include pummeling an ally instead of an enemy, break-
ing a weapon or important tool, or gaining a Debuff. 
Getting a Critical Fail on an Evade Check, the crawl-
er suffers twice as much damage and gains a Major 
Injury Debuff after combat. And they feel pretty 
dumb, too.
STARTING COMBAT
When it looks like a combat scene or encounter is 
imminent, such as Mobs and crawlers in close quar-
ters, establish the pre-combat situation by establishing 
the location and determining surprise.
ESTABLISH LOCATION
At the start of a combat scene or encounter, it’s 
important to determine where everyone is located 
and what opportunities or challenges are present 
in the environment. The GM should describe the 
obvious terrain features at this point, along with any 
obvious threats. 
DETERMINE SURPRISE
Normally, combat occurs when Mobs encounter the 
crawlers and the Mobs go first. Cunning crawlers may 
make use of their Skills, such as Stealth and Ambush, 
to get the drop on foes.

When crawlers surprise their foes, they get a free 
Action to spend before the normal flow of combat 
begins. Not it’s only one action, and the surprise 
round only happens once, at the start of combat.
MAPS IN COMBAT
Some groups love tactical maps. Others prefer a 
theater‑of‑the‑mind style, imagining the Action with‑
out a grid. Many groups fall somewhere in between, 
using tokens or painted miniatures to show general 
positioning—who’s in striking range, who’s a Move 
Action away, and who’s farther out.
Use whichever approach works best for your table. 
For groups that enjoy tactical play and precise 
movement, you can use either square‑ or hex‑based 
maps. The most common scale is 1‑inch squares 
or hexes representing 5 feet, which has become a 
standard for tabletop RPGs.
For vehicles or larger‑scale encounters, a useful 
scale is 1 inch represents 50 feet.
When using square maps, moving or attacking diag‑
onally works the same as moving or attacking into an 
orthogonally adjacent space, with no extra cost or 
measurement required. Bonus points if you knew what 
“orthogonally” meant before reading this section.
STEP-BY-STEP COMBAT
A combat scene unfolds in the following steps:
1.  Mob Action Declaration: The GM announces 
what the Mobs are doing, including their move-
ment, whom they plan to Attack, and how.
2.  Crawler Reaction Phase: Players can choose to 
use Actions on Interrupts.
3.  Mob Attack Resolution: Mobs complete their 
Attacks and other Actions.
4.  Crawler Action Phase: Players spend their remain-
ing Actions and finish their turns.
5.  Clean Up: Any effects that happen at the end of 
the round occur, all combatants reset their Action 
count, and a new round begins at Step 1 if needed.2

--- PAGE 83 ---
STEP 1: MOB ACTION 
DECLARATION
The GM announces the Mobs’ Actions during this step, 
including their general movement, which Attacks or 
other Actions they will use, and whom they are targeting.
Low-quality Mobs each have 1 Move Action and 1 
other Action per round, usually an Attack, typically divid-
ing their Attacks evenly between the crawlers in range.
High-quality Mobs, such as Elites and Bosses, are 
exceptionally dangerous. They have 1 Action per 
crawler each round, unless their Stat Block says other-
wise. They continue to have this many Actions even if 
some crawlers are out of commission or dead. Now 
you know why you might need to run away, dragging 
your Dying friends behind you.
Determine Targeting
Mobs target crawlers based on a variety of factors, 
such as whom they perceive to be the greatest threat, 
who is closest, which crawlers have items or effects 
that dissuade or enrage them (such as Fairy-class 

21
Mobs against a crawler with a Goblin Pass), or, my 
personal favorite, randomly.
STEP 2: CRAWLER REACTION 
PHASE
After all Mobs have announced their movement, 
Actions, and targets, the crawlers can use Interrupt 
Actions to react prior to the resolution of Mob 
Actions. Spending Actions during this phase counts 
against the two Actions that each crawler gets every 
round, and determining when to spend Actions is a 
significant part of game strategy.
And if you screw it up, you might die. No pressure, 
right?
The Interrupt Actions that crawlers can take include:
Evade (Interrupt): The most common Interrupt Action, 
a crawler who takes this Action attempts to avoid 
Attacks against them. The player rolls a separate Evade 
Check against each Attack directed at their crawler, so 
if three Attacks are directed at the crawler, the player 
makes 3 Evade Checks. The Difficulty of the Evade 2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 84 ---
2
Check is determined by the Mob’s Attack value (see 
Step 5 for additional details). Successful evasion of an 
Area Attack reduces the damage by 50%.
Intervene (Interrupt): The most flexible Interrupt, 
Intervene allows one crawler to help another at the 
cost of an Action. The Intervening crawler rolls 1d6 and 
can add the result of that die roll to another crawler’s 
Action after the result is announced. This can be used 
on any d20 Check (except Stat Checks), but is most 
useful for turning a Near Miss Fail result into a Success.
Catcher (Interrupt): Heroic, foolish, or tough crawl-
ers with Ranks in this Passive Skill prize this Interrupt 
Action, which allows them to take the hit for an 
adjacent ally (using their Step to get into position 
if needed). The Catcher crawler cannot Evade the 
Attack they’re catching.
Healing (Interrupt): A crawler can take this special-
ized version of the Cast a Spell or Use a Hotlist Item 
Action to activate a Spell or item with the healing trait. 
This healing applies before the Mob deals its damage 
(because we’re nice like that). The Healing Action 
may also be used as a normal Action during the crawl-
er Action Phase, which also allows a crawler to Make 
a Check, such as First Aid.
Taunt (Interrupt): Bold crawlers use this Action to 
make an Int-Opposed Taunt Skill Check against a 
Mob, drawing them to Attack the crawler using Taunt 
instead of the Mob’s original target. After using the 
Taunt Action, the crawler may then choose to spend 
an Action to Evade those and any other Attacks.
Once all players have finished their Interrupt 
Actions, play proceeds to Step 3.
STEP 3: MOB ACTION 
RESOLUTION
In this step, the Mobs deal damage to the crawlers 
who either failed to Evade or didn’t bother to Evade 
during Step 2. Any other effects from a Mob’s Attack, 
such as Debuffs, also apply now.
The GM rolls each Attack’s damage dice, adds the 
appropriate Stat Mod to the total, and applies any 
additional effects, such as Debuffs, from the Attack. 
Crawlers apply their Damage Resistance (p. 93) to 
the Attack’s damage before marking damage on their 
Health Bar (see Applying Damage to the Health Bar, p. 
94).

STEP 4: CRAWLER ACTION PHASE
Now players can use any remaining Actions for their 
crawler to strike back. Crawlers can take their Actions 
in any order and may even intermingle them. No 
initiative here! Crawlers may use both of their Actions 
to Attack if they wish. The Actions that players can 
take in this phase include:
Attack
A crawler strikes at a Mob with their fists or feet, a 
melee weapon, a ranged weapon, or a Spell. The 
crawler can swap the weapon in their hand for 
another weapon from their Hotlist as part of the 
Attack Action.
Choose a Target: Select a target within range. Most 
melee Weapon Skills have a range of 5 feet, and 
Weapon Skills with the Reach keyword have a range 
of 10 feet. Reach Weapon Skills cannot Attack 
through occupied spaces, but they can Attack diago-
nally through the corner between two spaces, as long 
as at least one of those spaces is unoccupied.
Spellcasters must spend their Mana Points to acti-
vate the Spell now.
Ranged Weapon Skills list their maximum range, and 
there is no penalty for attacking a foe within that range.
Ranged weapons and Spells that target a foe 
outside of their range automatically fail. 
Determine Modifiers: The player and GM determine 
what modifications apply to the Skill Check (if any), 
such as benefits from Buffs, penalties from Debuffs, 
modifiers based on target size, and environmental 
challenges like low light or cover.
Make the Attack!: The player rolls their Weapon Skill 
Check.
To Attack, roll 1d20 + Skill Rank + Stat Mod as usual. 
The target number for the Attack is the Mob’s Evade 
score, which is 10 + Dex Mod + Floor.
The Stat Blocks of some Mobs may have addition-
al modifiers. After the roll, the GM determines their 
crawler’s degree of Success (and opportunity for an 
ally to take the Intervene Action if needed). If the 
Attack hits, the player rolls damage based on their 
Attack or Spell.2

--- PAGE 85 ---
FOR THE GM: MOB ON MOB ACTION
Clever crawlers may find ways to cause Mobs to Attack each other or Bosses. When this sort of NPC
action occurs, the GM can simply decide. Pick David or Goliath depending on what makes things the most inter‑
esting. If the story doesn’t suggest a clear winner, directly compare the Attack and Evade (or other relevant Stats) 
between the NPCs to determine the outcome, assuming the NPC with the better value wins. If you want to play to 
find out (remember that GMs don’t roll Attack Skill Checks), roll 1d12 and use Table 8. It’s skewed toward the more 
powerful NPC but allows for the underdog to come out on top sometimes.
TABLE 8: NPC VS. NPC
ROLL OR 
CHOOSE EFFECT
1 The attacking NPC outright loses or misses badly, achieving a Major Fail, and everyone—other 
Mobs, Bosses, and crawlers—gains Advantage to Attack it until the end of the round or a Debuff 
of the GM’s choosing.
2–4 The attacking NPC misses or possibly just loses the fight.
5–8 The attacking NPC hits if its relevant Stat is higher than the defender’s opposing Stat
9–1 1 The attacking NPC hits and deals damage as normal or possibly wins the fight.
12 The attacking NPC achieves an Amazing Success, dealing damage to the defender with a bonus 
equal to twice the Floor Number or a similar Buff or just emerges victorious.
Keep in mind that even if you stick with the static values, Mobs attacking other Mobs and missing still consume 
their Actions, which can be a huge swing in the crawlers’ favor during an intense combat.2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME
MELEE ATTACKS
Most melee Attacks use your Str to hit and damage.
RANGED ATTACKS
Physical ranged Attacks use Dex to hit, some apply Str 
to damage, while others have no damage bonus.
Ranged Attacks suffer Disadvantage if made within 
the melee reach of an enemy.
SPELL ATTACKS
Most Spells use Int to hit and damage.
Ranged Spell Attacks also suffer Disadvantage if 
made within the melee reach of an enemy.
AREA OF EFFECT ATTACKS
Attacks like the Spell Fireball or the Goblin Dynamite Skill 
to use explosives deal damage over a wide area. These 
Area Attack qualities are listed with the Attack Skill entry. 
When making an Area Attack, the attacker makes a single 
Attack roll against a foe of their choosing within range 
as usual, with the potential benefit of dealing damage to 
more creatures than just the target of the Attack.
If the Attack is successful, the attacker rolls damage 
once and applies the full damage to all creatures, 

21
‑versus‑NPC 
crawler and Mob alike, in the affected area (including 
the target of the Attack). Resistances and DR reduce 
the damage as usual.
On Fail, most Attacks have misfired and no crea-
tures take any damage, unless it’s a Critical Fail and 
it hits the wrong target. However, Area Attacks like 
Fireball and Dynamite still land somewhere and deal 
damage to whatever is near the new impact area. 
Only Attacks like Throwing and Fireball that reference 
Figure 3 (p. 200) do anything on a Fail.
Some Area Attacks also have a Splash damage area 
(not to be confused with everyone’s favorite Otter 
stripper from the Penis Parade, Splash Zone), a radius 
from the initial blast which deals half as much damage 
to those in the area. Anyone caught in the splash zone 
of that damage applies DR and other effects normally.
A crawler affected by an Area Attack can Evade 
(if they spend an Action to do so), and may have 
situational modifiers from cover, elevation, among 
others. A victim who Evades an Area Attack reduc-
es the damage by 50%. A successful Evade in the 
splash zone reduces the damage by another 50% so 
only 25% of the damage is applied. Such damage 
is rounded down as usual. Taking a Step during an 

--- PAGE 86 ---
2
Evade Check (or any Interrupt) is not fast enough to 
outrun an explosion, so you can’t simply duck out of 
the affected area.
AREA OF EFFECT TYPES
Spells, weapons, items, Mobs, and Bosses use Area 
Attacks in various ways. There are several different 
types of Areas:
• Blast: Extends outward in all directions from the 
target (or where the explosive landed) to the listed 
distance.*
• Burst: Extends outward in all directions from the 
caster to the listed distance.
• Line: Extends outward in a 5-foot wide line from the 
caster to the listed distance.
• Cone: Extends outward in a 60 degree arc from the 
caster to the listed distance.
• +Splash: Extends outward beyond the full-damage 
area, dealing half damage within the Splash distance. 
This is typically an add-on to other Area types, and 
extends in the same way. Some attacks feature only a 
Splash effect: The target takes full damage, but every-
one in the Splash area takes half damage
Figure 2Copyright Renegade Game Studios. Unauthorized distribution prohibited. 08/25/2026.
(From Target)(From Target)
CC
OO
NN
EECC
OO
SS
NN
PP
EELL
AA
SS
HH
(From Caster)(From Caster)
BLAST OR BURST SPLASHBLAST OR BURST SPLASH

Example: A “20ft Cone +10ft Splash” means the 
Cone is 30 feet in length. Victims in the first 20 feet 
of the Cone take full damage, while victims in last 10 
feet Splash zone of the Cone take half damage.
*If you’re using a battle map, the target or impact 
area of a “10ft Blast radius” is the origin of the Blast 
effect. From that 5ft × 5ft space, the Blast extends 
outward two spaces in every direction. If you’re not 
tracking the exact position of each crawler, Mob, and 
other NPCs, you’ll need to make a reasonable call on 
who is affected in any Area Attack situation. See Figure 
2 for examples of Area Attacks.
Attack Modifiers
Several additional situations may alter the Evade score 
of a target or otherwise modify the Attack.
COVER
Objects can get in the way of Attacks made at greater-
than-melee range, causing such Attacks to be made 
with Disadvantage. Attacks made at melee range are 
unaffected by cover. Things that can provide cover 
include: crates, terrain, cars, or low walls. If the Attack 2
BLASTBLAST
LINE LINE 
SPLASHSPLASHLINELINE
BURSTBURST

--- PAGE 87 ---
misses, the cover might be destroyed, depending on 
how sturdy it is and whether your crawler is strong or 
has to have their mom do the heavy lifting.
ENVIRONMENTAL MODIFIERS
When attacking targets in Cover, Darkness, Severe 
Weather, Shifting Ground, or amid other penalties, an 
attacking crawler rolls with Disadvantage. Similarly, 
those with help from the environment, such as 
attacking from high ground, roll with Advantage.
SIZE
Crawlers roll Attack Skill Checks with Advantage if 
the target is 4 or more size classes larger than them. 
Inversely, crawlers roll Attack Skill Checks with 
Disadvantage when attacking a target 4 or more 
size classes smaller. And when a big dude hits a little 
dude with a Disadvantaged Melee Attack due to this 
modifier, the big dude adds their size value to the 
damage. See Table 9 for size names and values.
TABLE 9: CREATURE SIZE
SIZE SIZE NAME CREATURE EXAMPLE
1 Tiny Scatterer, Rat
2 Small Cat, Raccoon
3 Petite Goblin, Boar
4 Medium Human, Wolf
5 Large Horse, Mantaur
6 Huge Elephant, Rhino
7 Colossal Dinosaur, Dragon
8 Gargantuan Kaiju
UNSEEN ATTACKERS
Creatures gain Advantage on Attack Skill Checks 
against targets that can’t see them, such as a crawler 
who is hidden, invisible, or on the other side of a 
smoke cloud. Inversely, creatures suffer Disadvantage 
on Attack Skill Checks against targets they can’t see.
DAMAGE
When a crawler hits with an Attack, they deal damage, 
which starts with the base damage die determined by 
the Skill (higher Ranks grant additional base damage 
dice; see Attack Skill listings on pp. 177–184), plus 
the appropriate Stat Mod. Some Attacks add special 
effects alongside these extra dice.
Unarmed Attacks deal low inherent damage but 
allow the combatant to add 1 Damage Effect to the 
Attack. These include well-known abilities such as 

21
Powerful Strike, Iron Punch, and others from the 
novels. If the Attack hits, the Attack’s damage dice are 
rolled, and then the chosen Damage Effect is applied.
After calculating total damage, the GM applies any 
DR and then marks off the Mob’s Health Bar.
Cast a Spell
A crawler can spend an Action to cast a non-Attack 
Spell, pay its Mana cost, and follow the Spell’s 
instructions. There’s no limit to the number of Spells 
that can be cast in combat, provided the crawler has 
enough Actions and Mana.
Caster types are limited in their ready-to-go Spells by 
their Hotlist. If a Spell ain’t in your Hotlist, you can’t cast 
it until you Retrieve it (see Non-Skill Actions, p. 86).
Make a Check
Many non-Attack Skills can be useful in combat, and 
a crawler can spend an Action to attempt the Skill 
during battle. If the GM requires a non-Attack Skill 
Check in the midst of battle, this generally doesn’t 
require a crawler to spend an Action to perform, 
unless your GM doesn’t understand the rules or 
they’re feeling particularly spicy that day.
Look for Clues
The Look for Clues Action is a specialized version 
of the Make a Check Action in combat that focuses 
on gathering information about a Boss (not regular 
Mobs) or the environment to give the whole party 
a leg-up. This can be performed as an Unopposed 
Perception, Investigation, or similar Skill Check.
On Success, the crawler learns a piece of information 
about the Boss or area that could aid the party. Amazing 
Success or better grants additional clues if available.
If multiple clues may be found, the crawler can 
specify what aspect of the scene (such as the Boss, 
the environment, or other features) to focus their 
Look for Clues Action on. For Bosses, this can be as 
specific as their weapon, their armor, or the brooch 
the Boss is wearing.
Clues can include vulnerabilities, Resistances, 
Attacks to look out for, what effect killing a Mob’s 
leader might have, how to counter Debuffs inflicted 
by foes, environmental elements that would be useful 
in the fight, and more.
Ultimately, the GM decides which clue to give, so if 
they want to be a dick, that may not go so well for the 2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 88 ---
2
crawlers. If we assume the GM isn’t a megalomaniac, 
and perhaps they don’t feel a clue is going to be useful 
to the crawlers, they are free to just give each crawler 
Advantage on their next Attack or Evade, depending 
on what the clue-seeker was most interested in.
Healing
In addition to the Use a Hotlist Item Action or the 
Cast a Spell Action, a crawler can also use the Make 
a Check Action to use the First Aid Skill or any other 
means of healing in this phase. (See also the Healing 
Interrupt Action above in Step 4.)
Non-Skill Actions
During a combat scene, crawlers can also take a 
variety of Actions that don’t require a Skill Check, 
including:
• Call a Play: A crawler proposes an Action for an 
ally to perform, such as attacking a specific target. 
The crawler rolls 2d6 and keeps the higher roll: the 
Called Play bonus. When another crawler performs 
the proposed Action, the crawler who called the 
play can add the Called Play bonus to their ally’s 
Skill Check total. If the Skill Check is Successful 
without the bonus, the Called Play bonus adds to 
their damage roll instead.
• Intervene: During the Crawler Action 
Phase, a crawler can use 
the Intervene Action as 
well (see Step 2).

• Move: A crawler can spend an Action to travel up 
to their Move allotment and make a Step, as usual.
• Retrieve: Pull an item from your Inventory to your 
hand or the floor, or add it to your Hotlist. You 
cannot use that item during your current Action.
• Use a Hotlist Item: A crawler selects a 
consumable item from their Hotlist, such as a 
potion or scroll, and uses it or withdraws another 
item. Remember that swapping weapons is free as 
part of the Attack Action.
STEP 5: CLEAN UP
  You’ve punched some Mobs, 
cast some Spells, took some 
damage, and in doing so, you made a mess. You might 
just be getting the hang of this, crawler!
Reward: You get to clean up your own mess. I’m not your 
mother or your maid. Don’t be lazy, and do it yourself.
During this step, the players and GM do the following:
• Apply End-of-Round Effects: Crawlers with any Buffs, 
Debuffs, the Regeneration Skill, and other effects 
apply them now in the order most beneficial to them.
• Determine End of Combat: If all combatants on 
one side or the other are defeated, the combat 
ends. If not, combat continues at Step 1.2

--- PAGE 89 ---
CRAWLER VS. CRAWLER
Crawlers must reach a stairwell in any way possible to 
survive to the next floor, and that requires leveling up, 
learning cool Spells, and acquiring great gear (among 
other considerations). For some enterprising crawlers, 
the easiest way to advance through the dungeon isn’t 
to brave deadly Mobs and Bosses but rather to kill 
other crawlers while their guard is down.
CRAWLER VS. GMC CRAWLER
All the players in a party in the Dungeon Crawler 
Carl Roleplaying Game are explicitly working 
together. When we refer to crawler vs. crawler 
combat, it transpires between players’ crawlers and 
other surviving crawlers in the World Dungeon who 
are controlled by the GM (GMCs).
If forced by a Mob to Attack a party member, the 
target gets an Evade Check at no Action cost.
FIGHTING OTHER CRAWLERS
Fighting GM-controlled crawlers (GMCs) works just like 
fighting Mobs, aside from that empty feeling that yawns 
open inside your chest when you’ve killed another 
Human in cold blood. But don’t worry—if you keep 
doing it, you’ll eventually fill that chasm with enough 
dead bodies that you’ll feel normal again. It’s science.
KILLING A CRAWLER
As usual, when a crawler loses the last slot of their 
Health Bar, they die in a number of rounds equal to 
their Con Mod (see 0% Health Bar and Dying, p. 94). 
If a PC lets them die, they gain a white Player Killer 
Skull above their head next to their name, which 
identifies them to all other characters in the dungeon 
as a Player Killer. Now everyone knows (or at least 
strongly suspects) they can’t be trusted.
Keep in mind that only the crawler who delivers 
the killing blow gains the Player Killer title and the 
corresponding skull. Deflecting damage from a third party 
also does the trick. Use your imagination, and your GM 
just might let you get away with murder. If you don’t get 
the credit, the only reward you earn is the ignoble ability 
to loot the corpse as if it were a Mob, but note that the 
actual Player Killer gets first dibs, just like with Mobs.
PLA YER VS. PLA YER COMBAT
You know the old saying: Keep your enemies close, 
and kill your friends before they kill you. In the World 

21
Dungeon, each party member works alongside 
accomplished crawlers, each of whom probably has 
enough magic items and special gear to make a City 
Boss blush. And the World Dungeon is very interested 
in helping you take what’s theirs.
CONSIDERATE PLA Y AND PvP
Player vs. Player (PvP) combat is an optional rule, 
and it’s one the entire table should agree on before 
someone gets antagonistic with another player. 
Injury or death of one PC at the hands of another 
can lead to hurt feelings and might break up a 
gaming group or even a friendship. 
No one’s really playing this game to ruin friendships, so 
the default setting for PvP combat is off. Your group 
still needs to decide if players can target or hurt one 
another, whether it’s broken bones in combat or even 
just hurt feelings in a social scene (we suggest yes, 
but with frequent check‑ins). A common option is if 
a crawler betrays the party or initiates combat with 
another PC, after the dramatic moments are done, 
they’re retired to NPC status, and the player makes a 
new crawler with a solid reason to support the party 
of PCs. Whatever rule you decide for your table, make 
sure everyone agrees. You’re here to have fun, not ruin 
friendships. The table is not the World Dungeon.
If you’re going to engage in PvP, the books note that 
speed and reaction time are essential in such combats. 
At the start of each round of PvP combat, each player 
rolls for initiative: d20 + Dex. The high roller Attacks 
first. The low roller Attacks last. If tied, they Attack 
simultaneously. That’s how it works in a fair fight.
Now this may shock you: Not all fights are fair—
especially among friends willing to kill you for your 
enchanted watch. If a crawler makes a cowardly sneak 
Attack, they roll the first round’s initiative with Advantage. 
A sneak Attack is not a guarantee of landing the first blow. 
A very fast crawler might react before the blow lands (see 
Florin vs. Lucia Mar). There’s no honor among crawlers 
when survival (and ratings) are on the line.
During PvP combat, each player has 1 Action per 
round, as their 2nd action is Evade. The attacker 
makes an Opposed Check against the target. The 
attacker rolls their Attack Skill Check. That value then 
serves as the Difficulty for their victim’s Evade Check. 
Players aren’t Mobs. Don’t treat their combat as 
such. They are free-willed beings who happen to want 
to murder each other. Or at least one of them might. 
It’s a little more tragic when that happens.2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 90 ---
2
REWARDS FOR KILLING CRAWLERS
The System AI realizes that killing your own kind is 
distasteful, so it incentivizes this sort of bad behavior.
The first time you kill another crawler, you’ll receive 
a Silver Savage Box, or a Gold Savage Box if your 
victim was in the top ten. These boxes often contain 
one or more Player vs. Player Coupons naming your 
party members, along with a promise of high-tier 
rewards if you kill the named crawlers. They typically 
also contain one magic item as well. The System AI is 
magnanimous when it comes to homicide.
Note that Savage Boxes can also be awarded for 
permanently maiming your fellow crawlers, and not 
just the first time. The dungeon never penalizes you 
for dismembering a friend. Ain’t showbiz grand?
Still not enough incentive? Killing a crawler is a 
level-up bonanza, enough to make you forget about 
the blood on your hands (see Experience Points, 
pp. 169–170). Really, when you look at all the perks, 
you had no choice. Sorry, Dungeon Crawler Bob.
Once your friend is dead, you can scavenge their 
carcass for clothing, armor, weapons, gold, and 
anything else in their inventory. However, unopened 
loot boxes are bonded to the owner and cannot be 
removed from their inventory. The killer has 10 minutes 
to loot the body before it’s lootable by anyone else. 
Don’t let remorse get in the way of claiming that fancy 
enchanted watch you always wanted Bob to give you.
BOUNTY PA YMENT
If leveling up and Savage Boxes weren’t enough, the 
dungeon can sweeten the pot even further. How about 
a huge amount of gold for killing fellow crawlers? 
If you kill a top ten crawler, you also receive a 
Venison Box containing a very large amount of gold. 
Each crawler in the top ten (p. 282) has a bounty 
(p. 283) listed next to their name when the list is 
presented at the end of each daily recap show starting 
on the Fourth Floor. 
Now, your friends may not be in the top ten yet, 
but they could be. If they are, are they really still your 
friend? Hell no! Kill them for money.
If a top ten crawler dies for any reason, a System 
Message appears on all crawler HUDs: “A champion 
has fallen.”
• If they were killed by another crawler, it adds: “A 
bounty has been claimed.”

• If they were killed by a hunter, it adds: “A hunter has 
claimed a bounty.”
Other variations are encouraged, but don’t expect a 
full obituary.
MOB COMBAT EXAMPLE
The crawlers have spent enough time in the Iron 
Tangle at this point to know that many of the trains 
carry swarms of Mobs, and they can hear a train 
coming down the tracks toward the station.
Jose (playing Henry): I’ve got the Ambush Skill. Is 
everyone alright with me leading the party to take up 
positions around the station for when the train arrives?
Marianne (playing Michelle): Good idea!
Mark (playing Venus): Go for it!
Daniel (playing Chase): I’m down.
Anisha (playing Wren): *nods in agreement*
POSITIONING
Before a combat scene or encounter begins, the 
players and GM determine where everyone is in 
the encounter. In this case, the players set their 
miniatures in locations on a battle map. The crawlers 
know that the Mobs will come from the tracks, but 
not which direction the train is coming from, so they 
place their minis accordingly. When playing without 
a battle map, the party and GM discuss what’s in the 
area and where everyone is before the action kicks 
off. Good description is key!
Theresa (the GM): Sounds like a good plan, and 
there’s plenty of cover in the station. Everyone, go 
ahead and put your minis at your crawlers’ locations 
on the map. Since everyone needs to get into 
position, we’ll need a Party Ambush Skill Check.
Anisha: I don’t have that Skill, so that puts me at 
Disadvantage, right? Given how dexterous Wren is, 
I’m sure I’ve got this! Nope. Rolled a 4.
Mark: Well, at least you’re consistent! Venus gets an 18.
Jose: I’ve got 16.
Daniel: Chase doesn’t have the Skill either, but I’ve 
got an 11. 11 is good, right?2

--- PAGE 91 ---
Marianne: For the Fourth Floor? I doubt it—the 
Difficulty’s going to be at least 14. I got a 13, which 
isn’t much better.
Theresa: Alright, are you happy with those numbers?
Jose: Team, we should keep our AI Favor for when we 
really need it during the fight.
The rest of the party nod in agreement
PARTY SKILL CHECKS
The Ambush Party Skill Check here is a Failure 
because only two players (Jose and Mark) met or 
exceeded the Difficulty of 16 (an Opposed Skill 
Check with a Difficulty of 10 +4 for the Floor value 
+ 2 for the Ghouls’ Int). Had a third member of the 
party rolled 16 or higher, they all would have been 
safe, but the random number generator hates them, 
so the ambush goes awry.
Theresa: As you wish. Marianne’s right, your party fails 
to meet the Difficulty. So, the train pulls into the station, 
and the doors open. More than a dozen emaciated 
forms covered in festering sores shamble out. As 
several of the grotesque individuals move onto the 
platform, Wren slips, accidentally kicking a can 
out into the open station. The Ghouls instantly 
look up, alert and ready to fight!
STEP 1: MOB ACTION 
DECLARATION
With the party obvious to the 
Ghouls, Step 1 of combat is 
for the GM to declare what 
the Mobs are doing. Let’s see 
what Theresa says next.
Theresa: The Ghouls 
flood from the train 
car like a burst sewer pipe. Four immediately 
converging on the noise Wren made, hissing 
and snapping, spittle spraying from hungry 
mouths. Four more turn toward Chase, 
who discovers that “hidden behind a 
pillar” and “mostly hidden behind a 
pillar” are two very different things. A 
dozen additional Ghouls clamber from 
the train, sniffing the air and peering 
into the dark corners of the station 
in search of their next meal. Four at 
Chase, another four after Wren!

21
STEP 2: CRAWLER REACTION PHASE
Now the crawlers have an opportunity to “read the 
room” so to speak, and decide if they want to use 
an Interrupt Actions to potentially change what the 
Mobs are doing. These actions still count against the 
two Action limit each crawler gets in a round.
Anisha: Well, they already know I’m here, so I might 
as well make the most of it. I jump out of my hiding 
spot, making as much noise as possible to draw their 
attention. I’ll use my other action to Evade and hope I 
don’t die!
Theresa: I’m gonna call that a Taunt Action. Go ahead 
and make the Skill Check, Anisha.
Anisha: I’ve got that Skill at Rank 4! How about a 19?
Theresa: That’s more than enough for one 
of Chase’s Ghouls to turn your way.
Anisha: Success! And umm help? 
Anybody?2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 92 ---
2
THE EVADE ACTION
This Interrupt Action is the most commonly used. Its 
purpose is to avoid Attacks against them. By using an 
Evade action, Wren gets to make an Evade Check against 
every Attack the Ghouls send their way this round!
Daniel: I’m not much better off than you are… three 
on me. I’ll spend one of my actions to Evade as well.
Theresa: Got it. Anyone else reacting? No? Then let’s 
see how the Ghouls do.
ENDING A STEP
Once all crawlers decide whether to use their Actions 
on Interrupts and make their die rolls, the Crawler 
Reaction Step ends. It can be helpful to make a “last 
call” for Actions to make sure nobody misses their 
chance before ending the Crawler Reaction Phase.
STEP 3: MOB ACTION RESOLUTION
In this phase, the GM executes the actions that were 
broadcast in step 1, with the exception of those four 
additional Ghouls who have decided that Wren looks 
like a scrumptious appetizer.
Theresa: A total of five Festering Ghouls swipe at 
Wren! Fortunately for you, Anisha, by the looks of the 
battle map, only four can get to you. Please give me 
four Evade rolls.
Anisha: Come on dice! 19, 22, 19 again, and a 26!
Theresa: Well done! Despite their general lack of 
dexterity, Wren apparently becomes possessed by the 
spirit of ninja disco and manages to avoid all four of 
the Festering Ghouls’ Attacks! Now for Chase. You’ve 
got three attacking you, and you chose to Evade, so 
go ahead and make three Evade rolls.
Daniel: I didn’t get near as lucky. 10, 18, and… a 1.
CRITICAL FAIL WHILE EVADING
When a player gets a Natural 1 on their Evade Check, 
their crawler suffers twice the damage from the 
Attack and a Major Injury after the adrenaline of the 
fight runs out. Even with a trained medic in play like 
Jose’s crawler, Henry, injuries require time to heal. 
See Injuries, p. 96 for more.

Theresa: You managed to barely Evade one of the 
Attacks, but two others bite at you, tearing flesh and 
leaving deep gashes! You take 11 from the one hit, 
but the Critical Fail on your other Evade means that 
one deals 20 damage to you. Apply your Damage 
Resistance to each one, of course. And the Natural 1 
on the Evade Check means you’ll have a Major Injury 
after the fight.
Daniel: Even after Damage Resistance, that’s 40% of my 
Health Bar! Ouch! I can’t take too many hits like that.
STEP 4: CRAWLER ACTION PHASE
Now it’s time for the crawlers to strike back! Wren 
doesn’t have any actions left, having spent both 
during the Reaction Phase. Chase has one action, 
and the rest haven’t spent any of their actions, so 
they still have two each.
Mark: I’m going to use one of my actions to move off 
to the side, and then my second action to toss a Jug 
O’ Boom right in the center of the Ghouls that are still 
standing there.
Theresa: Nice! Make your Explosives Handling Skill 
Check so it doesn’t blow up in your face, and then 
Throw for the Attack.
Mark: 20 on Explosive Handling, and 28 for Throwing!
Theresa: Great throw! You land the jug right in the 
middle of the group. That’s an Amazing Success! Roll 
your normal damage, then add four.
AMAZING SUCCESS
When a player rolls 10 or more over the Difficulty, 
they gain an Amazing Success. In combat scenes, 
an Amazing Success on an Attack Skill Check adds 
bonus damage equal to the current Floor Number.
Mark: That’s an 8 on the die for damage from the jug 
and 4 for the Amazing Success, right? That’s 12 Fire 
damage! 
CONTEXT CLUES
As this isn’t a Boss encounter, the crawlers can’t 
use the Look for Clues Action. Yet throughout 
the battle, Theresa describes the Ghouls’ tactics, 
Attacks, and tendencies—such as avoiding fire—
without giving away the specifics, as a storytelling 
element amid the combat.2

--- PAGE 93 ---
Theresa: The presence of fire from the blast sends 
Ghouls scrambling back toward the train. Only the 
four Ghouls next to Wren, and the three close to 
Chase remain. Marianne, you’re up. What are you 
going to do?
Marianne: I’m close enough, I should be able to use 
my Sledge of Overabundant Mechanical Agitation to 
hit at least two of the ones on Chase, right? If so, I’m 
gonna do that.
Theresa: Sounds good. Make your two Warhammer 
Skill Checks.
Marianne: Natural 20, and a 16.
Theresa: The first one is a Critical Hit! Go ahead and 
roll damage for that one. The second looks like it’ll be 
a Near Miss.
Marianne: Can anybody give me a hand on this one?
Daniel: Can I use my second action to Intervene 
and push the Ghoul into the 
incoming hammer blow?

21
Theresa: Absolutely, you can! Roll 1d6, and we’ll add 
it to Michelle’s Attack.
Daniel: I got a 4.
Theresa: That’s a total of 20, which makes it a Standard 
Success! Roll damage for both Attacks, Marianne.
THE INTERVENE ACTION
The Intervene Action is flexible, allowing a player 
to use their Action to help another party member 
(hopefully) succeed. Intervene can only be used in 
combat and adds a d6 roll to the party member’s 
Skill Check.
Marianne: I’ve got Rank 10 in my Warhammer Skill, 
that’s 3d10 plus 5 for my Strength, so… 26 for the 
standard hit. For the Critical…2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 94 ---
2
CRITICAL HITS
Marianne gets a Natural 20 on Michelle’s Attack, 
which doubles the number of dice rolled. The 
Warhammer deals 1d10+Str damage, plus another 
2d10 for the Skill’s Rank 10 Upgrade. With the 
Natural 20, these dice double to 6d10+Str. Unlike 
other Attacks, Marianne doesn’t need to ask if 
Michelle hits, a Natural 20 always hits. Similarly, a 
Natural 1 always misses, but no need to worry about 
that here!
Marianne: I got 56 damage for the Critical Hit!
Theresa: Awesome! The first one takes the hit, the 
force removing its arm from its body, but it’s still 
standing at 50% Health. You swing the Warhammer 
with all of your might towards, and then through, 
the second Ghoul, splattering it down to 0 Health 
instantly.
0% HEALTH
When a crawler reaches 0% of their Health Bar, they 
gain the Dying Debuff and must be healed within a 
number of rounds equal to their Con or perish. When 
a Mob reaches 0%, they die and typically don’t come 
back, unless there’s necromancy afoot.
The scene continues, with Jose and Mark taking both 
of their Actions to clear out more Festering Ghouls.
STEP 5: CLEAN-UP
The final phase of a combat round is when ongoing 
effects, such as strength buffs or poison, impact 
the crawlers. Counters get advanced, trackers get 
tracked. It’s also an opportunity for the GM to spring 
something on the crawlers for the next round.
Theresa: As the two Ghouls drop into a puddle of 
hammered goo, another group of Ghouls pries the 
door of the car open, and five of them rush to join in!
Daniel: Here we go again!
Anisha: What’re you talking about! I’ve still got four 
trying to eat my face! Just so y’all know, I’m planning to 
drop a Fireball on the nearest one to clear them out.
Marianne: That seems a bit extreme, doesn’t it?

Anisha: Not when I have this handy dandy armlet that 
grants me Fire Resistance. Just use your actions to get 
out of the area and Evade. I’ll take care of the rest.
APPL YING DAMAGE RESISTANCE 
EFFECTS
When determining Damage Resistance (DR) effects, 
the player and GM always apply their DR first. 
After that, they apply Resistance, Immunity, and 
Vulnerability. In this case, Wren’s armlet grants 
half damage from Fire, so they’re unlikely to suffer 
significant damage from a nearby Fireball.
The round continues with the Mobs declaring, 
crawlers reacting, Mobs completing their Actions, and 
then Anisha’s Spell results in an inferno of magical fire. 
Chase and Michelle were able to get to safety and 
were relatively unharmed, and Wren’s Fire Resistance 
caused only minor self-inflicted damage. Venus, 
however, was not so lucky.
Mark: Oof, that was a calculated risk and boy, am I 
bad at math.
FRIENDL Y FIRE
Area Attacks like the Fireball Spell and explosives 
don’t care what team the people in the area are 
on. Keep that in mind when aiming Area Attacks! If 
one or more of your allies are in the area, it’s best 
to check if the players are okay with suffering the 
consequences of the Attack before putting their fate 
in the hands of explosive pyrotechnics governed by a 
random number generator.
Theresa: Mark, since you were still in the area of 
the Spell’s effect, but you managed to successfully 
Evade, you only take half damage. That’s 15 points of 
Fire damage. Along with that, you’ve got the Burned 
Debuff because you lost an HB slot to Fire damage.
Mark: So what does that do?
Theresa: That means you’ll suffer 1d10 plus 4 Fire 
damage each round until you put yourself out. You 
might consider stop, drop, and roll.2

--- PAGE 95 ---
Health Menu
Each character’s Health Menu is accessible whenever 
they can access their HUD. The Health Menu is an 
extensive pie chart that indicates any active status 
conditions such as Buffs, Debuffs, and injuries. The 
crawler can drill down and see which areas are 
affected, as well as learn from the provided detailed 
explanations of injuries and the healing process. If the 
crawler sustains enough damage, the entire pie chart 
may blink red.
In the Dungeon Crawler Carl Roleplaying Game, 
the Health Menu consists of the Health Bar, Mana, 
Buffs & Debuffs, and Injuries.
HEALTH BAR
Every creature in the Dungeon Crawler Carl 
Roleplaying Game has a Health Bar (HB), which 
tracks their available Health and is determined by the 
Con Mod for each slot. Each slot represents physical 
toughness, mental fortitude, and emotional resilience.
Crawlers’ HB is composed of 10 slots, and individu-
al creatures can have fewer (such as common Mobs) 
or more slots (Bosses, Elites, and some NPCs).
DAMAGE TYPES
Each instance of damage usually has a type, such as 
Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing for physical damage 
and elemental types, such as Acid, Ice, or Fire. The 
damage types themselves do not have a specific effect 
on their own but are referenced for other effects such 
as Resistance, Vulnerability, and Immunity.
The damage types and their rarity in the Dungeon 
Crawler Carl Roleplaying Game are listed in Table 10.
DAMAGE RESISTANCE
When a target takes damage, that damage total is 
reduced by their Damage Resistance (DR) first. The 
rest of the damage, if any, is applied to the victim’s 
Health Bar.
There are two types of Resistance: Damage 
Resistance and Elemental Resistance. Damage 
Resistance (DR) is resistance against all types of 
damage. A creature that has resistance to an elemen-
tal type, such as Fire Resistance, takes half as much 
damage of that type whenever they take damage.

21
TABLE 10: DAMAGE TYPES AND RARITY
DAMAGE TYPE RARITY
Acid Uncommon
Bludgeoning Common
Electric Uncommon
Fire Common
Force Uncommon
Holy Uncommon
Ice Uncommon
Necrotic Uncommon
Piercing Common
Poison Common
Psychic Uncommon
Slashing Common
Sonic Uncommon2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME
DR and Elemental Resistance are gained via 
Armor (natural or worn), Magic, and Buffs. There 
is no resistance against the latent sense of self-
disappointment lurking in the depths of your soul. 
Have you tried talking to someone?
DAMAGE VULNERABILITY
After Resistance is applied, use any Damage 
Vulnerability. Creatures can have Damage 
Vulnerability to specific types of damage, such as a 
Fire Elemental being vulnerable to Ice damage.
A creature takes twice as much damage when 
they’re vulnerable to that damage type.
DAMAGE IMMUNITY
Finally, calculate Damage Immunity. Creatures can 
have Damage Immunity to specific types of damage, 
such as a Fire Elemental being immune to Fire 
damage, so the old Earth saying “fight fire with fire” 
won’t get you very far here.
A creature reduces any damage to zero when it is 
a type to which they are immune. An Immunity also 
ignores any additional effects that come from that 
damage, such as Debuffs.
MULTIPLE DAMAGE TYPES
Some attacks feature multiple damage types, such as 
Fire and Force with a Rank 10+ Magic Missile Spell. 
Split the damage evenly between each type, and 
Resistance, Vulnerability, or Immunity to one of those 

--- PAGE 96 ---
2
types applies only to that portion of the damage. So if 
you have Immunity to Fire against a 20-damage Magic 
Missile Spell, you still take 10 Force damage from it. 
APPL YING DAMAGE TO THE 
HEALTH BAR
After applying DR, Elemental Resistance, Vulnerability, 
and Immunity, apply that amount to the Health Bar. 
If the remaining damage is less than the value of one 
Health Bar (HB) slot, the victim takes no damage. If 
the damage is higher, it is applied to the character’s 
HB. Add up the numbers in each slot of your HB until 
the total is equal to or greater than the damage. Any 
damage that does not meet the value of a slot is lost.
Make sense? Let’s play this out.
4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
10% 30% 20% 40% 60% 50% 70% 80% 90% 100% 
Damage Example
Using the Health Bar above, the crawler needs to take 
22 damage. That is more than 4, so they mark off an 
HB slot and still have 18 damage incoming, which is 
more than 4, so they repeat the process. After doing 
this 5 times, they have 2 damage incoming which is less 
than 4 so they stop, and that 2 extra damage is ignored. 
This Attack has caused the crawler to lose 5 Health Bar 
slots, and their HB now shows 50% remaining.
To mark off a Health Bar slot, fill in or mark the 
triangle in the upper right of the slot with a pencil. 
Don’t X through the Con Mod, or you’ll erase it when 
you erase the damage mark. Mark off green to red 
(right to left), as that’s how video game health bars 
typically work. When taking future damage, do not 
count the slots already marked off.
0% HEALTH BAR & DYING
If a crawler loses their last Health Bar slot, they gain 
the Dying Debuff and must be healed to at least 10% 
to survive. While Dying, a crawler can’t take any 
Actions, Move, speak, or use their HUD (see Heads-
Up Display, p. 16).
A crawler stays Dying for a number of rounds 
equal to their Con, after which point they die. Each 
time a Dying crawler would take damage, and during 
Combat Step 5: Clean Up, subtract 1 from the 
number of rounds they are Dying.
Mobs die instantly at 0% HB. GM-controlled crawl-
ers die as slowly as player crawlers do.

Actions & Healing from 0%
When a crawler’s HB is reduced to 0%, they are unable 
to use any remaining Actions until healed. If another 
crawler heals them during Step 4 of the same round, 
they can immediately use any remaining Actions they 
had left. But maybe don’t rely on your mostly dead 
companions to bail you out in that Boss fight.
HEALING
After crawlers take damage, they’ll want to recover 
their lost Health. They can heal through magic, such 
as the Heal Spell that every crawler learns when they 
enter the World Dungeon, through potions and other 
items, and by resting or mending.
Unlike damage, which requires calculations, healing 
is always done by slots. For example, the Heal Spell 
recovers 20% Health Bar, so a crawler heals two slots. 
To heal a slot, erase lost bars from red to green, stop-
ping at 100%
Spells and items specifically say either how many 
Health Bar slots or the percentage a crawler heals, 
making application easy in the midst of stressful 
situations like combat.
RESTING
Crawlers can also heal without using Mana or items, 
instead relying on the most valuable resource in the 
World Dungeon: time. By spending time resting in  
a saferoom, crawlers regenerate their Health Bar  
and Mana.
Doing so is often accomplished by sleeping in a 
saferoom’s private room but can also occur from time 
taken doing nothing but relaxing, eating, chatting, and 
watching the recap show, but with no manual labor 
more strenuous than some calming crochet.
Crawlers heal based on the amount of time they rest:
• Short Rest (2 hours): Heal 5 Health Bar slots. 
Crawlers also regenerate half of their total Mana 
(rounded down), so if they have 15 Intelligence, 
they regain 7 Mana.
• Long Rest (8 hours): After a long rest, a crawler is as 
good as new with a full Health Bar and Mana. A long 
rest also removes all instances of the Fatigued Debuff.
• Full Day’s Rest (30 hours): Required to recover from 
long-term injuries (see Injuries, p. 96), a full day of 
rest also recovers their full Health Bar and all Mana.2

--- PAGE 97 ---
Crawlers don’t always need to rest to recover. For 
every full hour spent outside of combat or other 
stressful situations, they mend their wounds and 
recover 1 HB slot and 5 Mana.
But don’t linger too long! Time spent lazing about 
is time you’re not out there grinding, leveling up, and 
making a splash for viewers at home.
OTHER FORMS OF HEALING
In addition to using items and Spells, Skills and 
Buffs found on or implemented into gear can aid a 
crawler in recovering Health and Mana, such as the 
Regeneration Skill (see p. 196) and the Recovery Buff 
(see Buffs, below).
BUFFS & DEBUFFS
Aside from the perils of damage, crawlers frequently 
gain or suffer status effects that change how they 
perform. These are called Buffs and Debuffs, 
respectively.
Buffs make crawlers stronger, faster, tougher, or 
otherwise harder to kill. Debuffs do the opposite and 
are typically applied as a side-effect of taking damage. 
The dungeon applies both with equal enthusiasm and 
leaves the mess for crawlers to sort out.
BUFFS
Buffs are positive effects that provide some benefit to 
a crawler. Buffs are typically granted by potions, Spells, 
and gear. If a Buff has a duration and/or a cooldown, it 
must be activated to gain the effects. Buffs come in two 
forms: Internal Buffs and External Buffs.
Internal Buffs
An Internal Buff is one that affects the crawler without 
interfering with others. The most common Internal 
Buffs increase Stats or Skills. Buffs that are granted 
by Skill Upgrades, Races, and Classes are permanent 
while you have access to their source. Benefits from 
equipment, such as a bonus to Evade from the Rapier 
Skill, only apply while wielding that equipment.
Here are some examples of Internal Buffs:
• Anti-Piercing: The DR of a piece of armor with this 
quality applies against Armor-Piercing damage.
• Good Sleep: Gains +Floor Number to all of a 
crawler’s Stats for 30 hours.

21
• Invisible: An Invisible creature can’t be targeted by 
anything that requires sight, and their equipment and 
gear are also concealed. An Invisible creature also 
benefits from Unseen Attackers benefits (see p. 85).
• Iron Skin Potion: Doubles the crawler’s DR for 30 
minutes.
• Recovery Buff: Restores a crawler to full Health 
(once per 5 hours).
Int Mana every 10 minutes.• Replenish Buff: Gains 
• Restore Buff: Restores a crawler to full Mana (once 
per 5 hours).
• Rooted in Place: Cannot be forcibly pushed, pulled, 
slid or otherwise moved around.
• Sticky Feet: Grants a crawler a Climb Movement for 
Dex.a number of minutes equal to their 
External Buffs
While normal Buffs apply all the time, External Buffs 
kick in when a particular trigger occurs. When the 
trigger occurs, the player can choose whether the 
Buff activates or not (useful when the effect has 
a cooldown). Activating an External Buff doesn’t 
generally require an Action, though some potent 
effects may require a specific Action that is resolved 
like an Interrupt.
Here are some examples of External Buffs:
• Damage Reflection: When a crawler loses a specific 
number of Health Bar slots, this Buff causes the 
attacker to lose 1 HB slot. Some versions of this Buff 
can direct the damage elsewhere (as in the case of 
Florin’s least favorite External Buff).
• Resistances & Immunities: When a crawler suffers 
a type of damage, they can activate this External 
Buff to instantly reduce damage.
• Safe Fall: When a crawler falls by a particular 
distance or more, this External Buff activates to 
prevent Bludgeoning damage from falling and has 
the crawler land in a classic superhero pose instead.2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 98 ---
2
The Rule of Three
Crawlers can have a maximum of three External Buffs 
active at one time. If they have access to more than 
three, the player chooses which three are active at 
the start of the crawling day. Write them down on the 
External Buffs section of your character sheet.
Typically, those are the Buffs that will be most useful 
to the crawler until the end of their next long rest. If 
a crawler gains access to a new External Buff during 
their adventuring day, they can change which External 
Buffs they have active during a short rest.
DEBUFFS
Debuffs are negative effects that affect the creature 
they’re inflicted upon, such as limiting their options, 
applying Disadvantage to Checks, or dealing ongoing 
damage until the Debuff ends. There is no limit to the 
number of Debuffs a creature can be affected by at once.
A creature cannot be affected by the same Debuff 
more than once at the same time unless the Debuff 
entry says “Stackable.” When a creature has Stackable 
Debuffs, they all apply their effect cumulatively.
Debuffs on Mobs or NPCs
When Debuffs are applied to Mobs or NPCs, they have 
the same effect they do on crawlers. However, because 
the GM doesn’t roll d20 Checks (remember?), they 
behave differently. The GM applies the following chang-
es when a Debuff grants one of the listed penalties.
• Damage: Damage from the Debuff is applied at the 
end of each round.
• Disadvantage: The Difficulty of the Mob’s Action, Stat 
Mod, or similar function is reduced by 5 when a crawler 
makes a Check against it. In the case of an Attack, the 
crawler gains a free Evade Check vs. the Disadvantaged 
Action. If they fail that free Check, they may still spend 
an Action to Evade as usual and try again.
• −X Skill Penalty: Reduce the Mob’s Difficulty by X.
Debuff Durations
All Debuffs have a duration, which is the amount of 
time or the conditions that must occur before the 
Debuff ends. Some Actions, items, or abilities may 
end a Debuff early such as dropping and rolling or 
leaping into water to put out a fire. The GM may also 
rule that a Debuff ends early if circumstances change.
If a Debuff applies damage to a crawler that would 
drop them to 0% on their Health Bar, they can make a 

Con Stat Check vs. Difficulty 10 + Floor at the end of 
the round. This Stat Check doesn’t require an Action but 
occurs automatically before fatal damage. On a Success, 
the Debuff ends, and the crawler avoids the damage.
Damage-Dealing Debuffs
When a Debuff damages a crawler, it occurs at the end 
of each combat round. Damage from Debuffs bypasses 
DR, but other Resistances and Immunities still apply.
List of Debuffs
Table 11 lists many Debuffs you might encounter, 
including the name, its effect, and its default duration.
Injuries
Injuries are a specific type of Debuff gained through 
significant damage, such as badly failing to Evade an 
Attack, suffering an especially powerful or vicious 
Mob’s Attack effect, and other catastrophic efforts.
There are two main types of injuries: normal and 
long-term. The most common way for an injury to 
progress from a simple injury to a long-term injury is 
to suffer the same severity of injury multiple times. 
For example, if a crawler sustains a Minor Injury and 
suffers another, it becomes a long-term Minor Injury.
All injuries are most commonly cured with rest time 
in a saferoom.
• Minor Injury: The crawler suffers −2 to all Checks. 
A normal minor injury lasts until the crawler 
completes a short rest, while a Long-Term Minor 
Injury requires a long rest for full recovery.
• Major Injury: The crawler suffers −5 to all Checks. A 
normal Major Injury requires a long rest to recover 
from, while a long-term Major Injury requires a full 
30 hours of rest for full recovery (see Resting, p. 94).
While some especially potent magic found on the 
later floors or from high-tier loot boxes may help 
crawlers recover from injuries faster, such magic is 
rare on the early Floors.
MANA
In addition to Health, crawlers access their Mana —the 
energy used to cast Spells —through the Health Menu. 
Crawlers regain Mana by resting, consuming 
Mana Toast (fuck you) available in some saferooms, 
consuming Mana Potions, and other ways. For more 
about casting Spells and Mana, see pp. 96 and 202.2

--- PAGE 99 ---
TABLE 1 1: DEBUFFS
DEBUFF 
NAME EFFECT DURATION
Blinded Roll all Skill Checks that require sight with Disadvantage. Until the end of the next round.
Blood Trail You take 1d6+F at the end of each round. Stackable. Until cured with a bandage or a First 
Burned You take 1d10+F Fire damage at the end of each round. Until the end of combat or 5 minutes. As 
Drowning You take 1d6+F damage at the end of each round. Until your head is above water.
Dying You are at 0% HB. Your Con Mod is how many rounds you have 
before you die. Subtract 1 from this countdown value at the end 
of each round. Additionally, each time a Dying Crawler would take 
damage from any source, they instead subtract 1 from the count‑
down value.
Enraged You are in a state of extreme uncontrolled fury. You may only 
perform Attack and Move Actions.
Fatigued You have a −1 penalty on all Checks and your Move is halved. 
Stackable. Until the end of a long rest.
Held You are actively being held. You can’t use Move Actions or take a 
Step but may still twist your body to Evade. Attacks against a Held 
foe are made with Advantage.
Long‑Term You take a −5 penalty to all Checks. Until the end of a full day of rest.
Major Injury
Long‑Term You take a ‑2 penalty to all Checks. Until the end of a long rest.
Minor Injury
Major Injury You take a ‑5 penalty to all Checks. Gaining a Major Injury a 
second time changes it to a Long‑Term Major Injury
Minor Injury You take a ‑2 penalty to all Checks. Gaining a Minor Injury a second 
time changes it to a Long‑Term Minor Injury.
Muted You can’t speak or cast Spells. Until the end of the combat or 5 minutes.
Poisoned You take 1d8+F Poison damage at the end of each round. Stackable.Until treated with an antidote.
Paralyzed You can’t take any Actions. Until the end of the next round.
Queasy If your next Action requires a roll, it’s made with Disadvantage. At the end of the next Action you take.
Sepsis You’re Staggered (see below) and take 1d10+F Poison damage at 
the end of each round.
Shit‑FacedYou make all your Checks with Disadvantage. Until the end of 10 minutes.
Shocked You lose your next Action. Once you forfeit that Action.
Sore as Shit You suffer a ‑1 penalty to all rolls. Until the end of 1 hour.
Staggered The next Action you take can’t be a Move, and if it is an Attack, its 
Check is made with Disadvantage. You can’t take a 10ft Step with 
your next Action.
Stiff Legs You can’t take 10ft Steps. Until the end of the combat or 5 minutes.
Stunned You gain Disadvantage on your next Check. Once you make a Check.
Take Down You fall prone. While prone, all Attacks made against you are made 
with Advantage.
Terrified You can’t take Move Actions or 10ft Steps. You make all Attacks 
with Disadvantage.
The Taint You can’t be healed. Until the end of combat or 5 minutes.
Woozy You can’t add your Dex Mod to Attack or Evade Checks. Until the end of the next round.

21

Aid Skill Check.
an Action, a victim may perform a Dex 
Stat Check to extinguish the flames.
Until you die or heal at least 1 HB slot.
Until the end of 2 rounds or 20 seconds.
Until the end of a long rest.
Until you are released by whatever is 
holding you, or you escape. Make a 
Str‑Opposed Escape Artist Skill Check.
If not physically held, it is Unopposed.
Until the end of a long rest.
.
Until the end of a short rest.
As Staggered, and the damage contin‑
ues until you’re healed.
At the end of the next Action you take.
Use your 10ft Step to stand.
Until the end of the next round, or you 
take at least 1 HB slot damage.
2CHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAMECHAPTER 2: PLA YING THE GAME

--- PAGE 100 ---
2
Equipment
To survive the World Dungeon, the crawlers will find 
and use all manner of gear.
INVENTORY
The crawler’s Inventory is accessed through their 
HUD (see Heads-Up Display, p. 16), and items in the 
Inventory are neatly categorized with key information. 
Items in the Inventory are weightless, so crawlers 
don’t need to worry about encumbrance.
Outside of combat, items can be retrieved from 
the Inventory at the speed of thought, appearing in 
the crawler’s hand, Hotlist, or on the floor in front 
of them. To transfer an item to another crawler or a 
marketplace, crawlers typically remove the item from 
inventory to hand it over, while marketplaces handle 
transfers direct to the crawler’s inventory.
There are a few limits on what crawlers can put into 
their Inventory:
• Living Creatures: If a crawler attempts to put a 
living creature into their Inventory, it dies. However, 
magical pet carriers make it possible for pets to take 
a time-out there.
• Too Heavy: A crawler must physically pick up an 
item for 4 seconds, unaided, in order to place it in 
their Inventory (see below).
• Loose Liquids: If you want to store liquids, put the 
liquid in a container first.
• Active Volatile Items: An active, burning, ticking, or 
fusing explosive that is within 3 seconds of deto-
nating cannot normally be stored in a crawler’s 
Inventory. Three seconds is enough time to give it a 
toss, so buck up.
• Items in Zero Zones or Outside the Dungeon: 
Crawlers cannot typically pick up and store items in 
their Inventory while in the production facilities of the 
various interview shows or at CrawlCon. Anything that 
they can carry in their hands or wear (and get past the 
guards) can be brought back to the dungeon.
LIFTING WEIGHT
The biggest limitation for adding items a crawler’s 
Inventory is whether they can lift it. A crawler can lift up 
to their Strength score × 15 in pounds. Animal crawlers 
don’t even have to touch items to put them into their 
Inventory, but they have the same lifting maximum.

THE HOTLIST
Spells and items a crawler needs to have at the ready 
can be stored in their Hotlist, which is a special part of 
their Inventory designed for quick access. By default, 
each crawler’s Hotlist contains 10 slots for items, 
Spells, and anything else the crawler wants to access 
quickly. Crawlers can spend an Action to activate 
something from their Hotlist (see Actions, p. 64).
If a crawler’s Hotlist is full, they must remove or 
swap an entry from their Hotlist to replace it. A 
crawler can swap an item in their hands for the item 
in the Hotlist as part of the Use a Hotlist Item Action. 
If a crawler swaps their currently equipped weapon to 
another weapon on their Hotlist, they swap for free as 
part of the Attack Action.
GEAR SLOTS
Crawlers are limited to the amount of gear they can 
wear or benefit from at any given time. This is enforced 
by the division of gear into Gear Slots. Each Gear Slot 
can contain at most one clothing item, except for the 
Accessories slot, which can contain up to 10 items.
Only the items in these slots give crawlers bonuses 
of any kind, and items in a crawler’s Inventory do not 
grant any bonuses. Each item that can be equipped 
specifies which Gear Slot it occupies.
Example: A crawler has collected four helmets, each 
with a different bonus. The crawler can wear only one 
of them, and only its bonuses apply while the others 
rest in the crawler’s Inventory. And no, Dave, you 
can’t wear four helmets.
The Gear Slot locations and examples of items that 
usually reside there include:
• Head: Items worn on the head or neck, such as 
helmets, bandanas, and cunning hats.
• Torso: Shirts, blouses, jerkins, and breastplates 
usually occupy this slot.
• Arms: Bracers and elbow pads make your puny 
arms look bigger than they really are.
• Legs: Pants, jeans, skirts, kilts, and boxers.
• Feet: Shoes, sandals, boots, and socks go here.
• Hands/Holding: This one’s a little different as you 
may both wear gloves (or similar) and hold things 
in your hands. One item per hand, and one pair of 
gloves. If you carry a Shield, that uses up a Holding 
slot. If a weapon has “Limitation: Two-Handed,” you 
cannot hold anything else.2