--- PAGE 215 ---
TRIPPER
“Let’s see if they know we’re coming.”
Passive, Area of Effect
Mana Cost: None
Range: 30ft Burst radius
Limitations: Does not detonate traps with very specif‑
ic triggers. Must be imbued onto something you are 
wearing.
Cooldown: 5 hours
With a snap of your fingers, every movement, heat, 
and weight‑triggered trap in the area “goes off.” 
Blades swing, bombs blow, and creatures are released.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +Intelligence Burst radius.
Rank 10: +Intelligence Burst radius.
Rank 1 5: +Intelligence Burst radius, and all damage 
taken is considered Splash (half damage).
TURN UNDEAD
“What is dead should stay dead… and far away.”
Attack, Area of Effect, Favored: Bard, Cleric, & Paladin
Mana Cost: 9
Range: 10ft Cone
Duration: 3 rounds
Limitations: Does not work against Bosses.
Cooldown: 5 minutes
Make a single Cha‑Opposed Spell Check vs. the Un‑
dead Mobs in the affected area.
On Success, the Undead Mob runs away for the dura‑
tion of the Spell.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +5ft Cone. Duration is 5 rounds.
Rank 10: +10ft Cone. Duration is 10 rounds.
Rank 1 5: +15ft Cone. Duration is 15 rounds. On an 
Amazing Success or better, the Undead Mob is de‑
stroyed.
TWINKLE TOES
“Fly my pretties, fly!”
Intelligence, Passive
Mana Cost: 2
Range: 5 feet

41
Duration: A number of seconds equal to your 
Intelligence.
Target a pet or minion within range. It has Move ×2 for 
the duration.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: The pet or minion has Move ×3 for the duration.
Rank 10: The pet or minion has Move ×4 for the duration.
Rank 1 5: The pet or minion has Move ×5 for the duration.
UNNECESSARY FORCE
“Excessive force authorized. Paperwork waived.”
Attack, Force
Mana Cost: 13
Range: 40 feet
A shockwave akin to that of an A‑bomb crashes over 
your target.
Base Damage: 1d12 + Int Force
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d12 base damage.
Rank 10: +1d12 base damage, and the target is 
pushed 10 feet.
Rank 1 5: +1d12 base damage, and the target is 
pushed 15 feet.
VINE PORN
“It’s like tentacle porn, but with vines… sorry, Mom.”
Attack, Piercing, Constitution, Favored: Druid
Mana Cost: 3
Range: 20 feet
AI Favor: 1
Magical vines with pulsating veins shoot up from the 
ground or sprout from the target’s own body to rip and 
tear and smack them around a bit.
Base Damage: 1d4 + Con Piercing
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d4 base damage.
Rank 10: +1d4 base damage, and this Attack deals 
Armor‑Piercing damage (ignores DR).
Rank 1 5: +1d4 base damage. On a Critical Hit, the 
target takes ×4 damage.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 216 ---
4
WALL OF FIRE
“You’re gonna fall in… to a burnin’ ring of fire.”
Passive, Fire
Mana Cost: 15
Range: 30 feet
Duration: 2 rounds
Creates a 30ft‑long × 7ft‑high × 2ft‑thick wall of fire.
Base Damage: 1d2 Fire for every 1ft of wall the victim 
passes through, and they gain the Burned Debuff.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d2 base damage. The wall can be turned 
into a ring of fire. Duration is 5 rounds.
Rank 10: +1d2 base damage. Creates a 50ft‑long × 
10ft‑high × 3ft‑thick wall. Duration is 10 rounds.
Rank 1 5: +1d2 base damage. Creates a 100ft‑long × 
20ft‑high × 5ft‑thick wall. Duration is 15 rounds.
WATER BREATHING
“It’s okay to inhale.”
Intelligence, Passive
Mana Cost: 2
Range: Self
Duration: A number of seconds equal to the caster’s 
Intelligence ×3.
The target can breathe underwater without issue.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: You may now cast this upon others at a range 
of 5 feet.
Rank 10: The targets roll Swimming Skill Checks with 
Advantage.
Rank 1 5: You can target any or all individuals within a 
15ft Burst radius.
WEB
“Blast your goo onto foes!”
Attack, Intelligence
Mana Cost: 6
Range: 20ft Cone
Duration: 2 rounds
A cone of sticky webbing shoots from your fingers.
Make a single Spell Attack Skill Check vs. each friend 
and foe’s Evade (if any).

On Success, that entity gains the Held Debuff. The 
Rank of this spell is used in the Opposed Difficulty to 
escape, instead of Str.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +5ft Cone. Duration is 5 rounds.
Rank 10: +5ft Cone. Duration is 10 rounds.
Rank 1 5: +5ft Cone. Duration is 15 rounds.
WILBUR’S SLOW-BUILD FIREBLAST
“Hold. Hold! HOLD!”
Attack, Fire
Mana Cost: 60
Range: 50 feet
Base Damage: 1d8 + Int Fire, and the target gains the 
Burned Debuff.
This Spell can be cast and held as a swirling ring of fire 
around your ring finger until you unleash it. Only one ring 
may be held at a time. The next time you perform an Attack 
Action, it must be this Spell (at no additional Mana cost).
If anyone touches the ring with the intent to diffuse it (you 
may oppose that Action), the Attack hits them for half dam‑
age. The appendage they touched you with smolders, use‑
less for a number of rounds equal to the damage inflicted.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: +1d8 base damage. For each full day you hold 
the spell, +1d8 Fire damage.
Rank 10: +1d8 base damage and +5ft Splash.
Rank 1 5: +1d8 base damage and +5ft Splash.
WISP ARMOR
“Empty minds are surprisingly easy to protect.”
Passive
Mana Cost: 5
Range: Self
Duration: 5 minutes
Cooldown: 5 minutes
You conjure a protective barrier that reduces all magic 
damage (typically Spells) down to its Rank 1 base dam‑
age (1 die + Stat Mod) without any Upgrades or other bo‑
nuses. This Spell also makes you immune to Mind Control.
UPGRADES
Rank 5: The duration is 10 minutes.
Rank 10: The duration is 15 minutes.
Rank 1 5: The duration is 20 minutes.4

--- PAGE 217 ---
Loot
When you get a loot box, it’ll be full of all kinds of 
useful items. Maybe not useful to you, but our many 
merchants will be happy to take it off your hands so 
you can spend that gold on something you do want. 
Or trade it to a party member and see what the AI 
thinks of that.
Of course, a box isn’t the only way to get sweet 
gear. You’re gonna kill a lot of monsters or die trying, 
and almost every bastard you take out has something 
on them. Once they’re dead, you can loot them and 
pull all their shit into your Inventory. It’s like a box of 
chocolates —you never know what you’re gonna get. 
The most common stuff you’ll find is Misc. Junk.
LOOTING MOBS
Once a combat is over, dead Mobs are ripe for the 
picking. How pleasant! The armor pieces and weap-
ons they carry are typically of lesser quality than even 
the mundane items crawlers find in Loot boxes, but 
might last for a day or two in a pinch. Each dead Mob 
carries 1d6 Misc. Junk and some amount of gold as 
well, based on which floor they are on. Roll once for 
Misc. Junk and gold, and then multiply the result by 
the number of bodies.
• First Floor: Nuthin’
• Second Floor: 1d6 gold
• Third Floor: 2d4 gold
• Fourth Floor: 2d6 gold
• Fifth Floor: 2d8 gold
LOOTING BOSSES
I lied —you always know one thing you’re gonna get 
from a Boss: a map. The map’s quality depends on 
the Boss, and no matter what type of map it is, it’s 
bound to help you get around the area easier.
Neighborhood Map
Acquired by defeating a Neighborhood Boss. This adds 
a map of the Boss’s Neighborhood to a crawler’s mini-
map, as well as all Mobs within that Neighborhood. 
Mobs appear as simple colored dots, but the 
Neighborhood Map does not provide further details.
Neighborhood Maps make Grinding more efficient. 
Because you can avoid lulls in the action, if you Grind 

41
for 5 or more hours, add 1 hour to your Grinding time. 
This allows you to Grind for 5 hours (the typical limit 
per day) and receive credit for 6 (See Grinding, p. 259).
Borough Field Guide
Acquired by defeating a Borough Boss. It will add 
an outline to individual quadrants within a borough, 
although details such as hallways or rooms will remain 
obscured. Focusing on a specific area will trigger a 
tooltip box to open, revealing the Mob level range 
and type (For example: Mob Level 15–24, Goblin 
Type). The Borough Field Guide does not fill in 
Neighborhood details like a Neighborhood Map.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 218 ---
4
Borough Field Guides make Grinding way more 
efficient because you can avoid lulls in the action. If 
you Grind for 5 or more hours, add 2 hours to your 
Grinding time. This allows you to Grind for 5 hours 
(the typical limit per day) and receive credit for 7.
GOLD
Gold is the currency of the realm, tracked as part 
of the crawler Inventory system, so there’s no need 
to worry about some dirty ragamuffin stealing your 
pouch when you visit a settlement. All merchants 
in the dungeon take gold, from everyday saferoom 
Bopcas to exclusive vendors, and you’re bound to get 
plenty in your loot boxes.
Mobs begin to drop gold on the Second Floor, and 
you can claim it if you’re willing to rifle through their icky 
pockets. All your gold fits into a single Inventory slot.
MUNDANE ITEMS
Loot boxes contain a lot of mundane items, with crawler 
biscuits and torches among the most common to keep 
crawlers fed and from falling on their faces in the dark.
GEAR
Gear, such as armor and weapons, is also common in 
loot boxes. Higher rarity loot boxes carry magical gear 
with potent and unique enchantments. 
CONSUMABLES
Loot boxes are also a great place to source useful 
consumables like potions, scrolls, and explosives. 
Don’t die with them in your Inventory —put them into 
your Hotlist to keep them immediately useful.
RARE MATERIALS
Crafters can find all manner of rare materials for 
construction projects in loot boxes as well. These are 
great for creating the gear of your dreams or filling 
your inventory with gold if you’re no builder.
COUPONS & FURNITURE
If you live long enough to make it past the first few 
floors, you might be able to afford a personal space 
that you can access from saferooms. Furniture and 
specialized equipment, like crafting tables, go there. 
Coupons can be exchanged with Bopcas to expand the 
types of rooms in your personal space, Trust me, the 
system knows how much you love player housing and 
having a cool guild clubhouse —the sky’s the limit!

SAMPLE LOOT
So that loot box is staring at you from your Inventory. 
But what’s inside? Typically one magic item or scroll, 
a consumable or two (potions, bandages, antidotes, 
etc.), plus gold. The particulars are up to the Game 
Master, but when you open it up in a saferoom, here 
are some goodies you might encounter:
BRONZE BOXES
Mostly weak magical items and mundane 
adventuring items, such as:
• Healing Potion (Heals 5 Health Bar slots)
• Mana Potion (Full restore)
• A Random Piece of Armor with +1 Damage Resistance
• Spell Scroll (One shot, no Mana casting; weak Spell)
• Magic Tome (Learn a new, weak Spell)
• 1d6 Bandages (spend an Action to remove the 
Blood Trail Debuff)
• Rope (50 feet)
• Canoe and paddle (Staff)
• Bicycle
• Hang glider
• Torches ×10 (Provides bright light for 20 feet and 
dim light for another 20 feet. It burns out in about 
an hour.)
• Stick of Basic Dynamite (1d6 Bludgeoning damage, 
0ft Blast radius +5ft Splash)
• And almost always 1d10 Gold
SIL VER BOXES
Magical items begin to appear with 
more frequency in silver boxes, as well 
as more potent consumables.
• Silver Ring of +2 to a Stat (Accessory Slot)
• Potion of +1 Skill (Permanent)
• Spell Scrolls (One shot, no Mana casting)
• Spellbooks (Learn a new Spell)
• Magic Paper (for Scroll-writing)
• Poison Antidotes (2)
• Crawler Biscuits (100)
• Good Healing Potion (Heals 6 Health Bar slots)
• Heal Pet Potion (Heals 5 Health Bar slots)4

--- PAGE 219 ---
• Stick of Good Goblin Dynamite (2d6 Bludgeoning 
damage, 5ft Blast radius +5ft Splash)
• And almost always 1d10 ×100 Gold
Sample Magical Gear From Silver Boxes
BITCH-ASS BUCKLER
Gear Slot: Hands/Holding
+1 Shield Block Skill
+3 Damage Resistance
BERNIE BOOTS
Gear Slot: Feet
When you gain the Dying Debuff, you can still 
perform Move Actions and can read HUD messages 
related to moving in certain directions.
BIG PURPLE PLUME
Gear Slot: Accessory
+2 Charisma
FRIENDSHIP BRACELET OF [RACE]KIND
Gear Slot: Accessory
Roll 1d10 to randomly select a Race: 1–2 dwar-
ven, 3–4 elven, 5–6 fairy, 7–8 orc, or 9–10 skyfowl. 
Removes automatic hostility from Mobs and NPCs of 
the selected Race. They can be bargained with and 
won’t immediately attack, though they’re not actually 
automatically friendly. If you ever take this off, or it 
breaks, Mobs and NPCs of that Race are automatically 
hostile for the rest of the Floor.
GOLD BOXES
Gold boxes are where the loot starts 
getting good and contain items like:
• Golden Ring of +3 to a Stat (Accessory Slot)
• Potion of +2 Skill (Permanent)
• Spellbooks (Learn a new Spell)
• Spell Scrolls (One shot, no Mana casting)
• Magic Paper (for Scroll-writing)
• Crafting, Sapper, Engineer, Alchemy, or Metal 
Working Table
• Gold Standard Healing Potion (Heals 7 Health Bar 
slots and mends one Minor Injury)
• Scroll of Upgrade (upgrades a crawler’s signature 
weapon)
• And almost always 1d6 ×1000 Gold

41
Sample Magical Gear From Gold Boxes
ENCHANTED ELBOW PADS OF THE ELBOW-
WALKING TURKEYS
Gear Slot: Arms
+2 Damage Resistance
+2 Dexterity
SKULLCAP OF SUCKING
Gear Slot: Head
+1 Damage Resistance
Each time you roll a Critical Fail, gain 1 AI Favor.
TOUGH GUY TATTOO
Gear Slot: Accessory
+3 Constitution
Add 10 to your 100% Health Bar slot.
PLATINUM BOXES
Platinum boxes are worth getting 
excited about. They can change your 
whole experience in the dungeon with options like 
significantly upgrading gear, granting new permanent 
Spells, and other benefits that asshole crawlers will be 
keen to kill you for.
• An interesting item granting +4 to a Stat
• Potion of +3 Skill (Permanent)
• Supreme Healing Potion (Heals 8 Health Bar slots 
and mends one Minor or Major Injury; or deals 8d8 
Holy damage to an undead Mob)
• Scratcher tickets
• Various Crafting Tables
• Various Crafting Table Upgrade Coupons
• Personal Space Coupons
• Good Mana Refill Potion (Restores 15 Mana per 
round for 10 rounds)
• Spellbooks (Learn a new Spell)
• Spell Scrolls (One shot, no Mana casting)
• Scroll of Upgrade (upgrades a crawler’s signature 
weapon)
• And almost always 2d6 ×1000 Gold4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 220 ---
4
Sample Magical Gear From Platinum Boxes
SELFIE STICK OF THE SELF-MUTILATOR
Gear Slot: Hand/Holding
You have 1 fewer Health Bar slot while holding this item.
When you enter combat with a Minor Injury, gain 
1 Popularity or 2 for a Major Injury. Gain an equal 
number of Actions each round of the combat.
CHESTY CHEESE GRATER
Gear Slot: Torso
+2 Damage Resistance
+5% Constitution
Damage Reflection 3:1 vs. melee attacks (for every 3 
Health Bar slots you lose, the attacker loses 1).
ENCHANTED LEGGINGS OF INSANITY
Gear Slot: Legs
+1 Damage Resistance
+3 Escape Artist Skill
You may fit your body south of your wedding tackle 
into any sized opening.
MEDICINE OR LUBE? SCRATCHER
As an Action in combat, roll 1d2. On a 1, one target 
within 20 feet of you is covered in slippery lube, 
granting the Staggered Debuff. On a 2, the target is 
affected by a Level 15 Heal Other Spell.
Cooldown: 30 Minutes.
NEBULAR ROULETTE SCRATCHER
As an Action in combat, roll 1d6 as a loud buzzing 
noise erupts from nowhere. On a 1, you take 2d12+F 
Electric damage. On a 2–6, the target takes 2d12+F 
Electric damage. 
Cooldown: 30 Minutes.
LEGENDARY BOXES
Legendary boxes are just that: boxes 
so rare and with rewards so good that they’re talked 
about in whispers. And yeah, sure, kid —your uncle’s 
roommate’s jazzercise instructor totally won one from 
Bigfoot.
• An interesting item granting +10% to a Stat
• Potion of +5 Skill (Permanent)
• Rare Spellbook (Learn a new Spell)
• Rare Spell Scroll (One shot, no Mana casting)

• Various Crafting Tables
• Various Crafting Table Upgrade Coupons
• Heal Severe Injury Potion (Heals 9 Health Bar slots 
and mends all Injuries)
• And almost always 1d10 ×10,000 Gold
Sample Magical Gear From Legendary Boxes
ENCHANTED CLOAK OF THE SLIPPERY PERV
Gear Slot: Accessory
+6 Charisma
+3 Evade Buff when you accuse your attacker of want-
ing to “penetrate you” in a way you have never used 
previously.
ENCHANTED WAND OF INCONTINENCE
Gear Slot: Hand/Holding
+10% Constitution
Once per session and as an Action, you may cause a 
creature within 30 feet to void their bowels, and they 
gain the Fatigued Debuff. If it’s a crawler and it hits 
the floor, the System AI isn’t going to like that!
HAND GRIPS OF HELLA HOLDING
Gear Slot: Hands/Holding
+10% Strength
+3 Damage Resistance
When you grab hold of something, you don’t let go 
until you wish to. Nothing can undo your grip, short of 
divine intervention.
CELESTIAL BOXES
You thought legendary boxes were great? 
This blows that shit out of the water.
• Divine Items —Things that do weird stuff when in the 
presence of deities
• Overpowered weapons, armor, and gear
• Potions that Max Out Skills (Permanent)
• Items that Rewrite Stats
• Life-Altering Effects on Items
• Sorry, no Gold4

--- PAGE 221 ---
Sample Gear From Celestial Boxes
BORANT CORPORATION RESET BUTTON
Gear Slot: Accessory
This button was used by the Borant Corporation to 
test dungeon encounters multiple times to fine-tune 
them before the broadcast started. Looks like they left 
this one behind.
Must be attached to a piece of your clothing. Once 
per floor, you may press this button to restart the 
current scene, up to 10 minutes into it. In combat, it 
must be used during the first round.
BERET OF DIVINE INTERVENTION
Gear Slot: Head
Choose a Skill and max it out at Rank 15.
When in the presence of a deity, double your 
personal rewards: Loot boxes, Mob looting, AI Favor, 
information at the Club, high-fives at the Penis Parade. 
When in the presence of your own deity, triple your 
personal rewards instead.
THE SASSY STILETTO
Gear Slot: Hand/Holding
+5 to all Stats
You gain Dagger Skill at Rank 15
You roll Critical Hits with this weapon on a Natural 16–20.
The dagger is intelligent and makes Look for Clues 
Checks for you at no Action cost with 10 Ranks of 
Perception. If you can handle the sassy attitude, 
you’ve made a friend for life.
RANDOMIZED MAGIC ITEMS
Finding new and interesting gear inside loot boxes 
and treasure chests is a favorite pastime of dungeon 
crawlers. Magical gear items typically offer a number 
of different benefits based on the tier of the loot box 
they came from. Roll a number of times, based on 
rarity, on the table for a given piece of Enchanted gear 
(Tables 38-42).
• Bronze: No rolls, item is mundane
• Silver: One roll
• Gold: Two rolls
• Platinum: Three rolls
• Legendary: Four rolls
• Celestial: Five rolls

41
The randomized magic items can either be rolled —
with a d6 —or selected by GMs who want to have the 
items ready when the loot box opens. The items can 
also be rolled up when the player opens the loot box 
as a surprise for everyone. In some cases, you may 
need to reroll duplicates, and in others, it makes sense 
for multiples of an option, like a Stat or Skill bonus, to 
apply to different Stats or Skills. The GM can also roll 
or simply choose something ahead of time, keeping a 
list of what the crawlers will eventually find.
If you roll an X value (such as +X Stat) on one of 
these tables, the value is determined by the loot box 
rarity (See X Values, p. 220). If you get a “Something 
Unique” in your roll(s), stop rolling on the current 
table and move to Something Unique.
TABLE 38: ITEM TYPE
ROLL OR 
CHOOSE TYPE
1–2 Enchanted Mundane Item or Weapon: 
Choose the type of weapon or item the PCs 
would use or what viewers would find funny
3–4 Enchanted Clothing: Choose the type of 
clothing based on what the PCs wear or 
what viewers would find funny
5–6 Enchanted Accessory: Choose the type 
of accessory based on what the PCs might 
wear or what viewers would find funny
TABLE 39: ENCHANTED MUNDANE ITEM OR 
WEAPON
ROLL OR 
CHOOSE RESULT
1 +X Stat Bonus
2 +X Skill Bonus
3 A Buff (not Skill or Stat bonuses)
4 A Passive Skill at Rank equal to the Floor
5 Inherent Spell* (no Mana cost; with Cooldown 
based on power level —GM’s choice)
6 Roll on Table 42: Something Unique4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 222 ---
4
TABLE 40: ENCHANTED CLOTHING
ROLL OR 
CHOOSE RESULT
1 +X Stat Bonus
2 +X Skill Bonus
3 A Buff (not Skill or Stat bonuses)
4 Resistance to an uncommon damage 
type
5 +1 Damage Resistance
6 Roll on Table 42: Something Unique
TABLE 4 1: ENCHANTED ACCESSORY (JEWEL, 
BELT, PATCH, TATTOO, ETC.)
ROLL OR 
CHOOSE RESULT
1 +X Stat Bonus
2 +X Skill Bonus
3 A Buff (not Skill or Stat bonuses)
External Buff of either Recovery (full 
4Health) or Restore (full Mana) once per 
Floor
Inherent Spell* (no Mana cost; with 
5Cooldown based on power level —GM’s 
choice)
6 Roll on Table 42: Something Unique
*When you gain an item with an inherent Spell, it has 
a fixed Rank. The Rank of the Spell typically follows 
the same values as seen below for Skill Ranks, though 
exceptions are common, like Carl’s “Protective Shell” 
was Rank 15 when he first got it. Spells gained this way 
don’t cost Mana to cast, but have added cooldowns —
usually 2 hours per Spell Rank.
X Values
The actual value of the Xs in Tables 39, 40, and 41 is 
dependent on what floor it is, how much the AI likes 
the crawler, and/or the GM’s discretion. Not every 
magical item grants a crawler additional Ranks in a 
Skill they already have. If a crawler gains Ranks in a 
Skill they do not currently have Ranks in, they now 
have that Skill at the Rank noted.
Here are some guidelines:
• Silver: +1 Skill Rank or +2 Stat
• Gold: +1–3 Skill Rank or +3–5 Stat

• Platinum: +2–4 Skill Rank or +5% Stat
• Legendary: +5 Skill Rank or +10% Stat
• Celestial: +6 Skill Rank or +20% Stat
When you get an item with a percentage boost to a 
Stat, the determined value of the percentage is set at 
the time you get the item. As with all other rounding, 
round down. After determining the value, record it on 
your character sheet (not the percentage).
Something Unique
Stop rolling when you roll “Something Unique” on 
any of the above tables. The “Unique” result should 
be extra powerful for each roll you missed out on by 
rolling Something Unique. Roll 1d6 (just once) on 
Table 42 (below) to see what your unique thing does.
Example: You roll a Something Unique result on 
your first of three rolls for an item from a platinum 
loot box. That unique thing should be around three 
times more powerful than if it had been rolled last.
TABLE 42: SOMETHING UNIQUE
ROLL OR 
CHOOSE RESULT
1 GM’s choice
2 Interacts with a god
3 The thing is intelligent
4 Summon minions to fight for you
5 Mimics something from the encounter 
where the loot box was earned
6 Player’s choice (with GM approval)
Naming Items
Name the item after rolling it up. If you roll Something 
Unique, the name of the item is sometimes influ-
enced by that ability. Items of gold, platinum, and 
legendary loot box origins will usually be preceded by 
“Enchanted.”
Magical items and gear typically have crazy names 
that tell you little of what the thing actually does. The 
naming conventions tend to use “the type of thIng 
of the aDjeCtIve Creator/mob/DeIty/boSS.” Common 
items often drop “The” in favor of the item name, like 
“Mask of the Psychotic Bugaboo.”4

--- PAGE 223 ---
Crafting
Sooner or later, you’ll discover a tragic gap between 
what you need to survive versus what you currently 
have in your Inventory. Maybe it’s ammo. Maybe it’s 
a helmet with actual protection, or a bomb capable 
of making a Neighborhood Boss reconsider its life 
choices. Regardless, crafting is for you!
Crafting allows a crawler to convert junk into 
something useful. Is it elegant? Not usually, but 
neither were most crawlers, and look how far they’ve 
come. You may craft mundane items that provide no 
inherent benefits, or enchant items with whatever 
magical benefits your heart desires. Let’s start with 
mundane items.
Any crafted item that provides a crawler with 
benefits from wearing, holding, or otherwise 
possessing it is not mundane. However, the GM might 

41
grant you a circumstantial bonus from a mundane 
item. For example, you might roll with Advantage on 
your Climbing Skill Check because of a mundane 
ladder or rope.
MUNDANE COMMON 
ITEMS
You needn’t craft small household or grocery store 
items. Instead, spend one Misc. Junk point (see p. 
99) to recover that item from your Inventory. Said 
item might be an egg-beater, rubber gloves, a roll of 
tape, or another item with limited moving parts—but 
not food or water. After using it, either write it into 
your Inventory or toss it. You do not get the Misc. 
Junk point back. Each point of Misc. Junk represents 
a kitchen drawer full of items that you just can’t 
bring yourself to throw away. Hey, if you’re that into 
collecting, I know a First-Floor Boss who would love to 
meet you. By the way, do you speak Spanish?4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 224 ---
4
TABLE 43: ITEM SIZES
MISC. JUNK 
NEEDED TO 
SIZE EXAMPLECRAFT
Tiny Soda Can 1
Small Toaster 4
Petite Chair 16
Medium Desk 32
Large Statue 64
Huge Dumpster 128
Colossal Barn 256
Gargantuan Grain Silo 5124
MUNDANE UNCOMMON 
ITEMS
Most households have string, not rope. If you need 
something that isn’t common or that wouldn’t fit into 
a kitchen drawer, you can craft it. Table 43 is your 
guide to the size of the item you craft and how many 
points of Misc. Junk your project requires. Whatever 
you make should have limited moving parts (no 
engines, electronics, fluid systems, etc.). If you have 
the required amount of Misc. Junk on hand, you can 
balloon-animal whatever you need into existence. The 
GM or the blueprint you’re following might require 
additional specific elements beyond Misc. Junk.

To successfully create an uncommon item with no 
moving parts out of Misc. Junk, make an Unopposed 
Fabricate Skill Check. For items with moving parts, use 
Engineering instead (no Engineering Table needed). 
Each attempt takes a number of hours equal to “the 
size times the size.” So, a size 1 takes 1 hour, while 
a size 4 takes 16 hours. If you succeed, the item is 
perfect and lasts for the rest of your short life here in 
the dungeon. If you fail, you messed it up. Determine 
by how much and consult Table 47 below.
CRAFTING MAGIC ITEMS 
(FOURTH FLOOR & 
BEYOND)
What you really want are items that give you bonus-
es, right? Are you on the Fourth Floor or beyond? 
Great! While generic crafting skills exist, there are also 
numerous specialty crafting skills: Alchemy, Arcane, 
Smithing, and more. Crafting magical items requires 
both an appropriate crafting table and a personal 
space to hold it. They also require many raw materials, 
some Misc. Junk, and whatever ingredients the GM 
or blueprint requires. Unfortunately, you can’t just 
cobble them together in thin air. Instead, you need a 
crafting table.

--- PAGE 225 ---
CRAFTING TABLES
Every different type of crafting skill has its own table. 
These tables range from tier 1 to 10 based on quality. 
You must have access to a crafting table when adding 
magical bonuses to an item. Your table’s tier serves 
as a bonus to your Skill Check. Even with just a tier-1 
table, you can attempt to enchant an item with any 
level of bonus, but it will be difficult. If you need multi-
ple different tables, only the lowest-tier bonus applies 
to your Skill Check.
A brand-new tier-1 Table costs 25,000 gold. They 
automatically level up by 1 when the crawler reaches 
a new floor, so the earlier you acquire one, the better. 
Table Upgrade Coupons found in loot boxes also 
improve tables. If you can’t find a loot box with an 
upgrade, you can buy an upgrade for 250,000 gold. If 
you’re in a rush, spend it. If not, wait.
TABLE 44: TYPES OF CRAFTING TABLES
TABLE TYPE ITEM CREATED
Alchemy Potions and poisons
Arcanist Imbuing items with inherent Spells
Armorer Armor
Engineering Making things with moving parts, 
fluids, and/or chemicals (such as 
bullets)
Metalworking Weapons
Sapper’s Explosives
Writing Scrolls
Table 44 presents the most common table types 
and what items they can create. These are the more 
common Crafting Tables. Feel free to add more. There 
are infinite types of upgrades you can apply to a 
crafting table over and above the basic levels: Speed 
Multipliers, Cauldron Attachments, Infusion Stations, 
and specialized tools are a few examples. Upgrades 
are commonly prerequisites for powerful recipes and 
blueprints. Whether you need these or not is up to 
your GM, as are the effects of these add-ons.
Just because you have access to a crafting table 
doesn’t necessarily mean you know what you’re 
doing. You still need the specific crafting skill for 
the item you wish to craft. Table 45 shows you what 
skills apply.

41
TABLE 45: CRAFTING SKILLS NEEDED
ITEM OR EFFECT CRAFTING SKILL
Damage Resistance Smithing
Explosives Explosives Handling or Goblin 
Explosives
Potions Alchemy
Scrolls Calligraphy
Spells Arcane
Tattoos Tattoo Artistry
ENCHANTING ITEMS
You can instill your creations with magical properties 
such as: Skill bonuses, Stat buffs, triggered effects 
(including “On an Amazing Success” on weapons), 
Resistances, Immunities, Damage Reflection, and 
more. You cannot enchant an item with the exact 
same property more than once. So, if you add +1 
Strength to an item, you can’t re-enchant it with a 
second Strength buff.
There is no such thing as a “+1 Longsword.” Instead, 
you add a +1 Longsword Skill Rank and a +1 damage 
bonus to a Longsword. Those are two different +1 
enchantments, crafted and rolled separately.
Dangers Of Over-Enchanting Items
Crawlers tend to push things as far, or farther, than 
recommended on the label. Crafting is no different. 
The first few enchantments added to an item are fairly 
safe, but after that, it’s risky to add more, no matter the 
method. Recall Donut’s “Enchanted Obsidian Bracelet 
of the Raggle Rouser.” Once it had three enchantments 
on it, she was warned, “This item has a 50% chance to 
permanently break if it’s upgraded again.”
When applying any enchantment by any means 
to an item with 3 or more enchantments, roll 1d10. 
On a 5 or less, the item permanently breaks. Items 
destroyed by over-enchanting cannot be repaired. 
You got greedy and paid the price. Do it again. 
Our viewers love it! Each enchantment, no matter 
the bonus level, counts as one enchantment. A +3 
Strength buff counts as one enchantment.
Other Methods of Enchantment
The World Dungeon provides several methods to 
upgrade items, but they are all uncommon. Patches, 
scrolls, sharpening stones, and more are ready for 
crawlers to discover. Scrolls of Upgrade may be the 4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 226 ---
4
TABLE 46: BONUS LEVEL EXAMPLES
BONUS EXAMPLE
+1 Stick of Dynamite dealing 1d6 Bludgeoning with no Area of Effect
+2 Standard Healing Potion, Standard Mana Potion, Damage Reflection 8:1*
‑Piercing Benefit (on cloth
+3 Poison Antidote Potion, Anti
Damage type, +5ft Move
+4 Damage Reflection 5:1*, Good Healing Potion, Good Mana Refill Potion, Armor
+5Restore Buff (full mana, with cooldown), Resistance to 
unCommon Damage type, Rank Damage Die damage bonus on a weapon, Gold 
+6 Immunity to 
Standard Healing Potion
+7 Recovery Buff (heals all Health Bar slots, with cooldown), +15ft Move
+8 Damage Reflection 3:1*, Supreme Healing Potion
+9 Immunity to Common Damage type, +20ft Move
+10 Mordecai’s Special Brew
*Damage Reflection: If you lose a number of Health Bar slots greater than or equal to the first number in one blow, the 
attacker loses 1 Health Bar slot.4
easiest to use (and for the GM to dole out), but there 
are plenty of other ways to upgrade items. Some of 
the more common types are found below.
Scroll of Upgrade: Applies one enchantment to a 
currently-equipped item, and must be applied during 
the current scene. A platinum box Scroll of Upgrade 
could provide two enchantments. See Table 46: 
Bonus Levels above for ideas, typically at a level equal 
to the current Floor Number.
Example: A Scroll of Upgrade on the Third Floor 
should grant a Bonus Level 3 enchantment, with easy 
examples being +3 Strength, +3 damage, or +3 Skill.
The most popular enchantments provided are 
“Amazing Success” triggered effects on weapons, 
abbreviated in your weapon notes as “AS: effeCt.” 
They add extra damage, Debuffs, or something 
weirder, but only one such trigger is allowed per 
weapon, and are in addition to the bonus “+F 
damage” every Amazing Success generates. A Critical 
Hit does not trigger such an effect. Additional samples 
for weapon upgrades are found in Table 26 (p. 116).
Sharpening Stone: These stones are typically found 
in Platinum loot boxes, and are normally usable only 
on “spiky weapons.” Their short shelf life means they 
must be applied immediately and are then destroyed. 
A weapon upgraded with a Sharpening Stone doubles 
your Stat Mod for damage on an edged or pointy 
weapon and adds one additional damage for every 10 
Levels of the wielder.

ing with DR), Resistance to unCommon 
 ‑Piercing
Common Damage type, +10ft Move
Upgrade Patch: Found in Gold-tier loot boxes, these 
are rare. Such patches upgrade a piece of clothing. 
Patches are Fleeting items: if the patch is removed, the 
bonus is lost.
Bang Bro Spell: This Spell (p. 203) creates a 
temporary enchantment on an item.
Bonuses
When selecting a bonus, pick the benefit you want. 
Selections come from the following: Stats, Non-Spell 
Skills, Buffs, Triggered Effects, Resistances, Immunities, 
Movement, and Bonus Damage. All are added to an 
item your style of crafting interacts with.
If you choose a numeric bonus (to a Skill, Stat, 
DR, or bonus damage), the bonus value determines 
much of the difficulty of the crafting Check. If 
the enchantment involves more than adding 
numbers, discuss its bonus level with the GM. If 
the enchantment seems too weak or too powerful, 
the Dungeon might intervene to patch it. Table 46 
provides some examples.
TIME TO CRAFT
Each bonus level applied takes one hour per level. 
You may craft things over multiple days, provided 
the blueprint doesn’t say otherwise. For example, 
a +3 bonus takes 3 hours. Table attachments might 
reduce the time the process takes, as do some Rank 

--- PAGE 227 ---
Upgrades. Some potions can be made in large 
batches, adding 1 minute per bonus level for each 
additional potion, but all ingredients must be on hand. 
See Alchemy on p. 226 for more information.
MAKING THE SKILL CHECK
When ready to craft, the crawler makes an 
Unopposed Skill Check using the skill required by the 
creation. Add your crafting table’s tier to your roll.
The materials are consumed whether or not the roll 
is successful, though skills (and results) like Salvage 
might allow you to save some ingredients. The crafting 
Skill Check Difficulty is based on the bonus level and 
type of enchantment.
The type of enchantment is the largest factor in  
the Difficulty.
• Stats: 10 + [Bonus ×2] 
Example: Adding +2 Dexterity to a dagger has a 
Difficulty of 14. That’s a 2 Stat bonus level times 2, 
plus the base Difficulty 10 for a total of 14.
• Non-Passive Skills and Spells: 10 + [Bonus ×4] 
Example: Making a Rank 2 Scroll of Fireball has a 
Difficulty of 18.
• DR, Passive Skills and Spells: 10 + [Bonus ×6] 
Example: A potion of +2 Dodge (a Passive Skill) has 
a Difficulty of 22.
• Any category not covered in the above three 
bullets: 10 + [Bonus ×4] 
Example: A 3d6 stick of dynamite has a Difficulty of 22.
On Success, the item is perfect and lasts for the rest 
of your short life.
On Fail, you messed it up. Determine by how  
much you failed and consult the Salvaging Your  
Mess table below.
On a Critical Fail, the item breaks, but might be 
Repaired (see p. 197). The enchanting ingredients 
might also be Salvaged.
SAL V AGING YOUR MESS
The margin by which the roll fails determines how 
many raw materials can be salvaged from the failed 
project. The sturdier the raw materials, the more likely 
they are salvaged. The GM assigns penalties and 
bonuses based on this. Mixed, liquid ingredients are 
typically not salvageable.

41
TABLE 47: SAL VAGING
MISSED BY RESULT
10+ You messed things up so bad that 
there is nothing left to salvage.*
3–9 You can salvage half of the raw 
material.*
1–2 You can fully salvage the raw 
materials.
*More might be saved if you have the Salvage Skill (p. 198).
SPECIALTY CRAFTING
Specialty crafting uses all the rules above, with 
exceptions noted below. Remember, some items 
crafted may require multiple skills and therefore 
multiple tables.
SMITHING
You may craft and enchant items such as horseshoes, 
railroad spikes, nails, and other metal items. Or the 
fun stuff: armor and weapons. Weapons and armor 
each require different tables as shown on Table 44 on 
p. 223. The Smithing skill only allows you to enchant 
armor and weapons. Start out with Misc. Junk raw 
materials, as seen in Mundane crafting, as seen above.
Armor
Individual armor pieces are more common than 
full suits. Armor on hands, feet, arms, and legs each 
provides a single DR value. If you are a biped or 
quadruped, you don’t get extra bonuses for each limb, 
but we respect that you tried to rules-lawyer. Note: 
Only pieces of armor with the Anti-Piercing benefit 
count against Armor-Piercing damage.
If you want to clank your way around the dungeon 
in a full suit of Hello Kitty-themed plate mail, do note 
that your entire ensemble only grants you a single DR 
bonus. One application of the Anti-Piercing Benefit 
gives you full DR against Armor-Piercing damage, since 
you have only one DR score to augment this way.
While there are interesting orcish, dwarven, elven 
and alien varieties of metal and mail, plus techie shit 
like Kevlar or metamaterials… it’s not a big deal. Call 
it what you want. If your group wants to worry about 
encumbrance, have people wearing armor on more 
than half of their body roll Dexterity-based Skill and 
Evade Checks with Disadvantage.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 228 ---
4
Weapons
You can craft mundane weapons using only Misc. 
Junk (see Mundane Common Items, p. 221), but you 
can add enchantments to any weapon, whether you 
made it or not. Such enchantments include bonuses 
to the weapon’s namesake skill, added Stats, bonus 
damage, and special damage bonuses (the Rank 
damage die being the most common). You may 
not enchant a weapon with more than one “On 
an Amazing Success” effect, even if the effects are 
different. These can be abbreviated in the Effects 
section for your weapon with “AS: effeCt.”
If you build a weapon from scratch, you need 
Misc. Junk just as though you were Fabricating it 
(see Table 43, p. 222). Once crafted, you may place 
enchantments on the weapon.
SCROLLS
To write the text and glyphs of a spell onto a scroll 
requires the Calligraphy Skill. The only ingredients 
needed are magical paper (which appears occasionally 
in loot boxes) and a suitable calligraphy pen. Writing a 
scroll allows anyone to cast that spell at no Mana cost. 
You must know a spell or have a scroll of that spell in 
your Hotlist in order to write that spell onto a new scroll.
The Rank of your Spell or scroll is the maximum 
Rank at which you may write your scroll. You can 
write a scroll at a lesser Rank to make your Skill Check 
easier if you wish. Magical paper doesn’t grow on 
trees. The Rank of the spell equals the bonus value 
for the difficulty in writing it. Scrolls are one-shots. As 
soon as the spell is cast, the paper disintegrates.
EXPLOSIVES
Explosives and incendiary devices require a 
volatile component that can’t be created with 
Misc. Junk. Your best bet to gather it is to diffuse 
explosive dungeon traps. Explosives cannot 
be upgraded in the same way that you 
upgrade a sword. Use the Bomb Surgeon 
Skill (p. 186) to break down your current 
explosive into its component parts. Then, 
make a new Explosives Handling or other 
crafting-based Skill Check to make a new 
explosive. You don’t even need more 
volatile components. You’re that good. If 
you fail, use the Bomb Surgeon Skill (with 
Table 47) to salvage your raw materials 
instead of the generic Salvage Skill.

Using a Sapper’s Table makes your components at least 
somewhat stable, so you don’t need to make Explosive 
Handling Skill Checks to stabilize your explosives.
The bonus value chosen to craft is the damage of the 
explosive, measured in d6 dice (the default explosive 
and incendiary device die). So, if you want to make 
a 3d6 stick of dynamite, that’s a Difficulty of 22, as in 
10 + [3 bonus × 4]. You can also put Area of Effect 
bonuses on an explosive, and you may add these 
add-ons in multiples if you wish.
+1 Bonus Level: +5ft Splash (a +10ft Splash is a 
bonus level of +2)
+2 Bonus Level: 5ft Blast radius (a 10ft Blast radius 
is a bonus level of +4)
Example: A 2d6 stick of dynamite with a 5ft Blast 
radius has a total bonus of +4 and therefore a 
Difficulty of 26.
The dice of damage counts as one enchantment 
on the stick of dynamite, while each different Area of 
Effect bonus applied to the dynamite stick counts as 
one enchantment.
ALCHEMY
Make drugs for fun and profit! Well, rarely profit. 
Potions are one of the more expensive types of 
crafting, as you often must combine two potions 
to make a new one. If the combo isn’t better than 
what you started with, you just lost money. However, 
once you have a successful recipe, you can produce 
additional potions faster if the GM thinks you have 
the necessary attachments on your Alchemy Table. 
It takes just 1 minute per bonus level for each extra 
potion, but you must have all the raw 
ingredients to do this. Example: You have 
successfully made a potion with a +3 bonus 
level. An additional potion of that same type can 
be made in 3 minutes.
The most sought-after potion types are Stat 
and Skill enhancers with high bonuses, as they 
are permanent. They increase your enhanced 
and unenhanced Stats. Each crawler may 
only consume two Stat potions and two 
Skill potions during the entirety of their 
short life, so don’t get too excited over that 
+2 Charisma potion. That’s what makeup 
is for. Poison antidotes and other cures are 
also popular.4

--- PAGE 229 ---
Something New… or Old
If you want to create something original rather than a 
mix of existing potions, you’re in eye of newt and toe 
of frog territory. You need to gather a variety of these 
materials, lots of them. Weird plants, fungi, monster 
parts, blood, minerals, metals… there’s all kinds of 
ingredients you can find.
An original creation doesn’t have specific ingredients, 
unless your GM happens to be a chemistry enthusiast. 
Instead, gather the blood, saliva, and other excretions 
from creatures or the environment that roughly 
approximate the effects you’re looking for.
Poisons
Naturally occurring poisons are usually the easiest 
starting point for creating original potions. Alchemy 
then refines them into something even nastier.
One can apply a poison potion (the whole thing) to 
any weapon that deals Piercing or Slashing damage, and 
it lasts for an entire day. An Amazing Success on a to-hit 
roll means the poison got into the target’s bloodstream 
or whatever their physiology uses to power muscles. 
The victim gains the Poisoned Debuff, and adds the full 
bonus level damage to the Poison damage at the end 
each round, starting with the current round. 
Example: A nasty +9 bonus level Poison Debuff deals 
1d8+F+9 at the end of each combat round.
Remember, if a Debuff causes a crawler (not Mobs 
or Bosses) to drop to 0% Health Bar, they get a free 
Con Stat Check vs. 10 + Floor to avoid the damage. If 
they succeed, the Debuff ends.
Concoctions
A concoction combines two existing potions into a 
single potion with a blended version of both effects. 
TABLE 48: CONCOCTION AND INFUSION RESULTS
CHECK RESULT EFFECT
Critical Hit You created something unique, more powerful than the ingredients used, and are credited as 
the inventor. You collect 1 gold every time someone uses a copy of your creation.
Amazing Success You have something at least as good as the effects of the two potions, but it could produce 
unexpectedly bitchin’ results.
Standard Success Your creation only slightly improves one of the two base potions. For example, combining a healing 
potion and a mana potion might only create a new mana potion that also heals 1 Health Bar slot.
Near Miss or Failure Your mixture is smelly and unsuited for further use. No salvage is possible.
Critical Fail It blows up in your face, dealing you Xd6 Acid damage, where X is the bonus level you aimed for. Or 
the GM might come up with a disaster more befitting the potions used or the intended creation.4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

41
Creating a concoction is faster than brewing something 
from scratch. Instead of taking 1 hour per desired 
bonus level, it takes 1 minute per desired bonus level to 
combine two or more potions into a new mixture.
For example, Mordecai’s Special Brew is a 10 bonus-
level potion and is a combination of a Gold Standard 
Healing Potion and a Troll’s Second Wind Potion (very 
rare). Since it is a 10 bonus, it takes 10 minutes to mix 
the two potions together.
Mixing two potions together might take a lot of 
trial and error to produce something interesting. Each 
attempt ruins the original potions. You can’t salvage 
them to undo the mixture. And inert concoctions do 
not make for good ingredients for new concoctions.
When mixing two potions, announce your intended 
result to the GM before you roll. The bonus level you 
aim for cannot be higher than the combined bonus 
levels of the potions you are mixing. However, the 
final result can exceed that limit if you roll an Amazing 
Success or Critical Hit on the Alchemy Skill Check.
Infusion
Infusions add enchantments to consumable items. 
Making an infusion requires an Alchemy Table or an 
Infusion Station on a Tier-3+ Sapper’s Table. Once you 
find or create a potion to apply to a consumable item, give 
the item a dunk in the potion. The potion is consumed, 
and you need to make an Infusion Skill Check. The 
bonus value of the potion used is the bonus level you’re 
attempting, informing the Difficulty of your attempt.
However, because the potion is already prepared 
and stable, make this crafting Check with Advantage. 
Additionally, the time to craft it is measured in minutes 
instead of hours. In other words, infusion is just a safer 
and faster way to enchant consumables. You can get 
the same effects through normal crafting, but those 
methods take far more time.

--- PAGE 230 ---
4
ARCANE
Arcane enchanters are able to imbue items with 
inherent spells using an Arcanist Table. This craft-
ing skill allows you to enchant the widest variety of 
items, such as weapons, armor, wands, items, but not 
consumables, such as scrolls or tattoos.
The crafter can only imbue an item with spells they 
personally know or spells taken from scrolls they have 
available, and only up to their (or the scroll’s) Rank in the 
Spell. An item can have only one inherent Spell, though 
it may still receive other enchantments as normal.
If the spell being applied does not already have 
a cooldown, it does now. The default cooldown is 
2 hours per Spell Rank. You can adjust it to add or 
subtract bonus levels from your creation:
+1 Bonus Level: Subtract 2 hours from the 
cooldown (to a minimum of 1 hour)
−1 Bonus Level: Add 5 hours to the cooldown (to a 
maximum of 30 hours)
Tattoos
Crawlers with the Tattoo Artistry Skill can draw permanent 
enchantments onto a person. They are subject to the 
same rules as potions: A maximum of 2 Stat bonuses and 
a maximum of 2 Skill bonuses. Unlike other magic items, 
each tattoo has a maximum of one enchantment on it, 
and each part of the body can have a maximum of one 
magical tattoo. However, additional dungeon-created 
tattoos (like a Desperado Club pass) can share the space, 
even if they give the equivalent of a bonus.
Using specialized materials that should be hard to 
come by, a crawler can transfer some or all of a tattoo 
enchantment to another crawler by drawing out some 
of the ink and mixing it with their own blood. Choose 
how many Ranks/bonus levels you wish to give up, 
and then the new recipient gains only those Ranks.
“You must really love 
that thing. Too bad you’re 
both probably going to die 
a horrible death at any 
moment. Or maybe not.”
—The System AI4

Pets
Given the constant danger, having a pet might sound 
wildly irresponsible. And honestly? It probably is. But 
the Dungeon is cruel, exhausting, and lonely, and 
sometimes the difference between giving up and 
pushing forward is having something that doesn’t 
judge you… much.
Some pets made it through the Collapse right 
alongside their people, while others are acquired in 
the Dungeon. Crawlers are limited to one pet each, 
unless you gain a benefit or choose a Class that says 
otherwise. This isn’t an animal rescue.
BRINGING IN A PET
The quickest way to gain a pet in the World 
Dungeon is to bring one with you. If the GM allows 
it, you can start play with a single bonded pet (as 
your “interesting or useful item”). It gains a crawler 
ID number but isn’t a crawler. Such an animal has 
an Intelligence of 1, and if increased to 2 or higher, 
it becomes a full-fledged crawler like Donut. Then, 
it’s no longer a pet. It is now also capable of judg -
ing you.
The only way to raise an Earth-born pet’s 
Intelligence is via an Enhanced Pet Biscuit, which 
is worth 3,000 gold each. Very rarely, you can find 
them in a merchant’s shop. It’s more common to find 
Enhanced Pet Biscuits in Legendary Pet Boxes, though 
not all such boxes will have one. With over a hundred 
different effects (try the roadkill opossum flavor!), the 
vast majority do not grant the pet any Intelligence. 
They don’t grant a crawler Intelligence, either.
Of course, a player can choose to play as an animal 
crawler during character creation, if the GM allows it. 
This animal gets an Enhanced Pet Biscuit, allowing it 
to achieve that rare and baffling statistical condition 
known as “being roughly equal to the rest of the party.”
For many animals, this is a miracle. For dogs, it 
is confusing but oh boy is it also sooo exciting. For 
cats, it is a demotion. For the humans in the party, it 
is a sobering reminder that the family pet has been 
watching you for years. That hamster living in her cage 
in your bedroom? She has seen some shit.

--- PAGE 231 ---
PETS AS REWARDS
Despite their names, Bronze and Legendary Pet Boxes 
don’t contain pets (read the fine print), but rather 
pet-related loot, supplies, and gear. Crawlers typically 
only get a pet inside the dungeon either by choosing 
certain classes or visiting a Pet Reward Room.
If a Class grants you a pet as a benefit, you can 
choose the type of animal. That pet starts as Calm 
(see chart below), which means you haven’t scared it 
off yet. Good job.
Pet Reward Rooms are scattered throughout the 
dungeon, often to reward crawlers who explore the 
dark corners of a floor. Once found, the System AI 
grants them a key that opens a specific cage contain-
ing a specific pet. It’s like opening other doors in the 
dungeon, except your pet probably won’t try to kill 
you (for now).

41
ADOPTING A PET
I bet you’re thinking, “Hey, I want a Mob as a pet!” 
Well, some Mobs in the Dungeon might make good 
pets. They naturally start out Hostile, and it might take 
a few slashes across your face before you find one 
that doesn’t want to eat you. But yeah, you can take a 
Mob as a pet. As they are dungeon-born, they don’t 
have crawler numbers and can’t become crawlers, 
even if their Intelligence is 2 or above.
Looting isn’t just limited to inanimate objects: you 
might get lucky and find a stray former pet. When a 
crawler dies, you can swoop in and bond with the 
orphaned pet. Such strays are, of course, very hard to 
find, unless you had something to do with the crawl-
er’s demise. Some puppies are simply to die for, right?4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR

--- PAGE 232 ---
4
BUYING A PET
Why can’t I just buy a damn pet, you ask? You can! 
You can buy a pet from a Dungeon vendor. They 
cost 10,000 gold. Surely you have that much by now? 
Lower floors offer better options and increasingly 
more unique pets, but they still start at Level 1, no 
matter how much you spend. Used pets, or as Borant 
says, “pre-loved,” aren’t any cheaper.
TAMING A DUNGEON PET
Unsurprisingly, most creatures native to the World 
Dungeon start out as Hostile. Some see you as food; 
others don’t really care about you at all. If you want to 
make one your pet, you must convince the animal that 
it wants to be your friend. Easier said than done, if the 
animal is venomous, toothy, hungry, or just nervous.
Assuming you do convince the animal, you even-
tually need it to become Bonded with you. This takes 
time and patience, but feeding a creature is often the 
key to changing its attitude toward you. Come to think 
of it, that works on people, too. Why not clicker train 
your friends for fun and profit?
Animals have four basic attitudes toward Crawlers. 
When trying to convert an animal from one attitude 
to another, make Int-Opposed Animal Handling Skill 

Checks vs. the Int of the pet. That’s usually a base 10, 
+1 for their Int Mod, and + Floor, but Mob pets could 
have a higher Int Mod. Animals begin with one of 
these basic attitudes:
• Hostile: The animal wants you to go away, or worse, 
they’d like to kill and eat you. Calming a Hostile 
animal is difficult. It requires at least 20 minutes of 
careful, direct contact, and an Amazing Success 
or better on an Animal Handling Skill Check (p. 
185). Which means you may attempt this every 20 
minutes, if the critter sticks around long enough.
• Calm: The animal couldn’t care less about you. 
You’re nothing to them, but if you threaten or 
Attack, it quickly changes its attitude to Hostile. 
Making a Calm creature a Friendly one requires 20 
minutes of careful, direct contact and a Standard 
Success or better.
• Friendly: The creature finds you useful. It does its 
own thing. It takes food from you and allows you 
to pet it, but not much else. If you ignore it or treat 
it with cruelty (shame on you!), it quickly changes 
its attitude from Friendly to Calm, if not Hostile. 
Creating a life-long bond with a Friendly animal, 
changing its attitude to Bonded, takes 20 minutes of 
direct contact, and an Amazing Success or better.
• Bonded: You’re this pet’s favorite person. It adores 
you and tries to protect and please you. If you 
ignore it or treat it cruelly (asshole!), it gets hurt but 
remains Friendly, confused about why you don’t 
reciprocate its affection. But with enough cruelty, 
the attitude descends the ladder, often skipping 
Calm and going straight to Hostile. An animal can 
only bond to one crawler at a time. Likewise, a 
crawler usually only has one Bonded pet at a time, 
though Rank Upgrades in the Animal Handling Skill 
or your chosen Class can change that.
No matter the animal’s attitude, if you roll a Major 
Fail on any of these Animal Handling Skill Checks, you 
can’t attempt to change the pet’s attitude for 1 week. 
If the floor collapses before you’re Bonded, the pet 
fails to come with you to the next floor. You just killed 
your best buddy. Way to go.
On a Critical Fail, the animal reverts to Hostile and 
Attacks you. You still can’t attempt to change its atti-
tude for 1 week.
Once you’ve bonded with your new best friend, 
choose the role you want for it:4

--- PAGE 233 ---
• Tank: Has DR equal to Floor Number, and choose 
one Special Ability
• Aggressive: Gain the Back Claw and Bite Skills 
(Rank = Floor), add + Floor damage to all Animal 
Attacks, and choose no Special Abilities
• Utility: Choose two Special Abilities
Abilities tied to the current Floor Number increase 
when you descend to new floors.
SPECIAL ABILITIES
• Move 60ft
• Gain either the Taunt or Catcher Skill (Rank = Floor)
• Gain swim or burrow with Move of 30ft or flight or 
jump with Move 50ft
• Heightened Senses (where crawlers make such 
Skill Checks, you make Stat Checks for your pet 
vs. the same Difficulty the crawler faced, which is 
either Opposed or Unopposed)
• Resistance to an uncommon damage type
PET
Your new pet starts at Level 1 no matter how, where, 
or when you acquire it in the dungeon. Pet-class Mobs 
and Earth-born pets die instantly at 0% Health Bar. To 
prepare yourself for the inevitable, watch Marley and Me.
All pets that originate in the dungeon are the 
property of Borant Corporation and are tagged 
as “pet-class Mobs.” You have no legal rights or 
contracts regarding pets you find in the dungeon. 
However, the AI knows that crawler and pet combos 
get a lot of viewers, so it doesn’t typically break up a 
good ratings pair unless there’s a very good reason. 
Here are the basic statistics for all pets. Pets have 
Health Bar slots equal to their size value to start (typi-
cally 2–5), and gain 1 Health Bar slot each time they 
level up, to a maximum of 10.
Pet, Level 1
Animal
1
100%
Level Evade Speed DR
1 +1 20+S 0
Str Int Con Dex Cha
2 (+1) 1 (+1) 2 (+1) 2 (+1) 1 (+1)
Slice Attack: d20 + F + Str to hit, 1d4 + Str Slashing

41
PET LEVELING
As a member of the party, pets level up when the 
crawlers do. They’re equal. Actually, they’re more equal 
because they level up twice as fast as crawlers do until 
they reach level 15, gaining 2 levels at a time. Once at 
level 15, they level up at the same rate as crawlers.
Pets get Stat increases just like crawlers do: 3 Stat 
Points per level gained. You may place them as you 
please, except for Intelligence.
Pets don’t have trackable Skill Ranks. Instead, their 
Ranks in their Attacks, Spells, and abilities (when 
rolling Checks) are equal to the Floor Number (even 
at Level 1!). These Ranks don’t improve via the normal 
ways: grinding, training, potions, or the like. Pets do 
get Upgrades, though. Pet Attacks increase with an 
extra base damage die at Rank 5, 10, and 15, just as 
they do with crawlers, but for pets, that means floors 
5, 10, and 15.
PET LEVEL 15
Your little critters grow up. At level 15, your pet is now 
mature! It grew to its full size and won’t get any larger. 
Congratulations, you didn’t kill your pet! As a reward, 
it gains a new benefit, such as:
• Earthquake (Mongo): When the Pet performs a 
Move Action prior to a melee Attack, roll 1d12. On 
a 10+ result, an Earthquake occurs within that Burst 
radius (10–12ft). All foes in the radius gain the Take 
Down Debuff. Cooldown: 5 hours.
• Wrecking Ball (Tummy Acher): Once per day, 
use a Move and Attack Action to make an Xd6+F 
Bludgeoning attack, in an Area Line with range 
equal to the Pet’s Move value. X is the size of  
the pet.
• Spells (like Bianca): Good News! Pets don’t have 
a Class, so they can cast Favored Spells without 
additional Mana costs. Bad News! Pets must spend 
Mana to cast Spells.
• Regeneration (Tummy Acher): If the Pet dies, it 
comes back with +25% Stats and gains a new 
weakness (such as a Vulnerability or Skill penalty). 
Every fifth time it dies, it completely reverts to a 
Level 1 Pet.
“Good boy. Look, Mongo! 
You’re on TV!”
—Princess Donut4CHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEARCHAPTER 4: SKILLS, SPELLS, & GEAR