--- PAGE 128 ---
3
TABLE 35: THIRD FLOOR EVENTS 
D1 2 ROLL 
OR CHOOSE SKILLS GAINED/LEARNED NARRATIVE 
Drain Life Spell, Performance, The Third Floor started with a bang as you found yourself 
Lore, Play by Earhaving to perform for your life for an Elite NPC necromancer. 
1 
You managed to do well enough to be allowed to live and 
learned a little more about the storylines of the Third Floor.
Infusion, First Aid, Alchemy, Mixing a bunch of chemicals together and seeing what 
Melted Off Fingerprintshappened wasn’t the best way to learn, as evidenced by 
2 
your melted fingernails, but you sure discovered how to 
make an effective acid. 
Hide in Shadows, Intimidate, You decided to enter the Third Floor carefully, sticking to the 
3 Perception, Batman‑Wannabeshadows and waiting for the perfect moment to appear and 
strike fear into the hearts of those nearby. Dramatic much? 
Calligraphy, Religion, Holy On the Third Floor you discovered a quiet church that 
Aura, God‑Curiousoffered you a resting place and time to get your bearings. 
4 
You probably won’t be converting any time soon, but it 
taught you some useful Skills. 
Engineering, Survival, Climbing, You were caught outside at night, leaving you with no 
Just ’til Sunrisechoice but to find a way to survive. You managed to build 
5 
a shitty shelter up high to avoid the Mobs and live to see 
another day. 
Incendiary Device Handling, Mobs sometimes throw explosives, and you, an absolute 
Regeneration, Catcher, Meat idiot, caught one and managed to save a fellow crawler’s 
6 
Shieldlife. It nearly cost you your arm, but it eventually healed 
up. Mostly. 
Jumping, Dodge, Investigation, You figured you’d be safer if you got up high and observed 
7 Mile High Clubwhat was going on for this new floor, and hey, it kind of 
worked out. Too bad some Mobs can fly and hurl projectiles. 
Lockpicking, Improvised A locked room seemed like it would be a treasure room for 
Explosive Device, Ropework, sure. Instead, you found a Borough Boss. Thanks to some 
8 
Short Fusequick thinking and an insane amount of explosive items tied 
together, you got a shiny new star by your name. 
Explosives Handling, Basic Sometimes it’s worth taking your time to learn new Skills. 
Science, Tactics, Science is But who has that luxury in the dungeon? You grabbed a 
9 Messyhandful of smoking bombs and hurled them into the center 
of several Mobs. It made a huge mess, but you can’t make a 
cake without exploding a few hundred eggs, right? 
Pathfinder, Regeneration, Discovering a filthy castle filled with useless shit wasn’t the 
Dumpster Diving, Got My best way to start the Third Floor, but you managed to turn 
10 
Tetanus Shottrash into treasure by finding some valuable stuff in the pile 
of garbage, and you only got Super Tetanus twice! 
Riding, Animal Handling, Acute Giant, deadly beasts tried to chase you down, but you 
11  Ears, Yeehaw Buckaroomanaged to get the drop on one of them and rode it like a 
bucking bronco. 
Shield Block, Aiming, Weapon A Borough Boss of epic size nearly killed you, but a well
12 Skill of your choice, It’s Luck attack saved your ass. T
not Skilldeath, your shield saved your head. You’re one lucky SOB.3

‑aimed 
hen when the Boss blew up after 

--- PAGE 129 ---
TABLE 36: FOURTH FLOOR EVENTS 
D 12  
ROLL OR SKILLS GAINED/
CHOOSE LEARNED NARRATIVE 
Smithing, You attempted the impossible: making a map of the Iron Tangle. Sure, it’s a 
1 Cartography, 3D monstrosity that takes up way too much space and isn’t actually right at 
Arcane, Visualizerall, but damn, does it look impressive. 
Balance, Endurance, When you jumped on the Nattier Line, you didn’t anticipate all the train cars 
2 Swimming, Blood in would be filled with water and Concierge Sharks. Surviving the ride turned all 
the Waterthe water bright‑red, but h
Attack of The Neighborhood Boss didn’t seem that bad at first—just a fuzzy little guy, 
Opportunity, but you know better than to trust that. You pissed off the Pooka into showing 
3 
Catcher, Taunt, its real form (a giant goat) and managed to use its rage against it. 
Seeing Red
Cooking, Iron Another group of crawlers threatened you over a Quest item. You didn’t back 
Stomach, down and instead talked the group into joining you for a meal. Your sweet 
4 
Diplomacy, Through words and the delicious food made these enemies into allies. 
Their Stomach
Grand Illusion Spell, A marketplace stall, Treasures for Me, tried to rip you off, but you’re smarter 
Determine Value, than that. You managed to spot the lie and get above value for everything 
5 
Investigation, Good you needed to sell, including that ugly conductor souvenir hat. 
Business
Find Trap, Gas from a trap causes you to hallucinate vividly. In an environment as 
Perception, dangerous as the World Dungeon, it’s hard to tell if the feline royalty in the 
6 
Streetwise, corner shouting orders at you is real or just another denizen of the world. 
Derealization
Deception, Religion, Causing a train derailment to steal an Engineer Key from the Mantaur engi‑
Sleight of Hand, neer wasn’t your brightest idea, and listening to him rant about Grull and 
7 
Sticky Fingersglorious battles definitely wasn’t the best use of your time. But you did 
manage to nick the key from the engineer without having to fight him. 
Basic Science, You reached station 436, the Abyss Station, and discovered a wreckage of 
Fabricate, Salvage, train cars and a fuck
8 
Stare into the of valuable items, you crafted yourself something nice before escaping.
Abyss
Balance, Climbing, All those movies lied: Running across the tops of moving trains is not as easy 
9 Ropework, as it looks! Thanks to some careful footwork and rope bridges, you managed 
Ferroequinologistto survive crossing train car roofs without plummeting to your death. 
Intimidate, A shopkeeper NPC tried to make a deal with a clueless group of crawlers, and 
Leadership, you stepped in to make sure they got a fair deal. Sure, you might have made 
10 
Negotiation, Fair the shop keeper cry from fear, but that’s what tough negotiators do. 
Deals or Bust
Dodge, First Aid, You heard another crawler yelling for help in a nearby train car. As a hero 
11  Wisp Armor Spell, (idiot), obviously, you ran towards the danger. Avoiding the Fleshers, and 
Tender Hearteddefeating the War Mage, you saved the low
Endurance, Running, Trying to outrun a train was a really stupid decision, especially with those 
12 Foot Soldier, Train Cornets chasing you, but you are nothing if not stupidly tenacious. Not only 
Spotterdid you not get run over, but you actually made it to the station in one piece.3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

31
ey, it was only partially because of your blood.
‑ton of Jikininki Janitor Ghouls. Thanks to the abundance 
‑Level crawler. 

--- PAGE 130 ---
3
Race & Class 
Selection
When you reach the Third Floor, the System AI will 
recommend three specific Race and Class options 
based on your Skills and background. Technically its 
Race first, then Class; but for this game it’s more fun 
to choose them in tandem so the order doesn’t matter 
as long as your Race and Class are compatible.
Your Game Guide walks you through the process 
of selecting a Race and Class, as well as distributing 
your Stat points. Although you can choose to remain 
whatever Race you were upon entering the World 
Dungeon (your choosing your original Race such as 
Human or Cat—gaining those racial benefits), many 
crawlers transform into a different Race to acquire 
new aptitudes or capabilities. 
Animal crawlers who choose a non-animal race 
keep their animal Skills but cannot use them (unless 
they somehow become an animal again).
Each Race and Class features a variety of benefits, 
including new Skills, Stats, Spells, the ability to raise Skills 
to Rank 20, and more. If a Race or Class grants “+X Skill” 
and you don’t have that Skill, you do now, at the Rank 
listed. If you have that Skill, add the bonus amount, up 
to 10 (see Skill Rank Limits sidebar). Some Races and 
Classes have drawbacks as well.
Some Races and Classes have prerequisites that 
a crawler must meet to select them. If it requires an 
SKILL RANK LIMITS
During the Race and Class selection process, there is a Skill Rank limit of 10. If you already have Rank 8 in a Skill and 
you would add +3 to your Rank, you stop at 10, and the remaining bonus is wasted. Once this process is over, your 
limit is typically 15, but your Race or Class might allow some Skills to be raised to 20.
If you manage to reach Rank 16 or higher, the benefits that come with it do not come online until the Sixth Floor.
SEX, GENDER, AND SPECIES
Limits from a character’s gender, sex, and species are optional, though they add spice to the game by letting you tell 
stories relating to these elements of a character. If you don’t want to deal with these issues in a fantasy escape game, 
you’ve already probably discussed it with your group (see Before Starting Play, p. 12, and Session Zero, p. 246). 
Depending on how you might want to interact with these elements. Here are a few ways to deal with these limits:
• The crawler experiences a glitch that allows an illicit choice to be made. Lawyers may be involved later as an 
adversary sues about it.
• Create a custom variant that does the same thing, but under a better name. The story may or may not relate to 
the original limits.
• Use a preferred definition: Decide that the System AI works off gender rather than sex. Patch things as needed.3

achievement that you don’t have, ask your GM if you 
might have earned it on the Tutorial Floors but never 
received it. Even the AI can make mistakes, but it won’t 
offer you a Race or Class you can’t select. It’s probably 
in your inbox and you didn’t check the achievement. 
Discuss the Races and Classes you’re interested in with 
the GM, but they’re free to throw in some curveballs.
In addition to prerequisite achievements, some have 
Stat requirements. Conveniently, you gained a bunch of 
Levels on the Tutorial Floors. Now that you’re on the Third 
Floor, you get to apply all those Stat points before you 
choose your Race and Class. To apply your Stat points, 
subtract 1 from your current Level, then multiply that 
value by 3. That is how many Stat points you get to add to 
your five Stats, however you wish. Example: A 10th-Level 
crawler has 27 Stat points to distribute (9 × 3). You may 
also distribute your Stat points after choosing your Race 
and Class.
RACES
Over the next dozen pages, you’ll find Race options 
that appear in the books and are available to most 
crawlers. Discuss your desires with the GM, and it 
often helps to peruse likely Race and Class combos 
before selecting your Race.
After Classes, you’ll find the Build System, which 
allows you to create your own Races and Classes for 
your crawler based on a menu of available options. 
Several of the Races presented here have unique bene-
fits you won’t find on the point cost charts because the 
option is just unique.

--- PAGE 131 ---
EARTH-BASED RACES
The following Race options come from Earth, either as 
naturally occurring (like Human and Cat), or inspired 
by Earth culture (such as the Amazonian, Dwarf, Elf 
[side note: you guys are really fascinated by pointy 
ears; have you talked to your therapists about that?], 
and Sasquatch). The mudskipper showrunners want to 
see more of these Races battling for survival because 
viewers across the galaxy love to root for the home 
team. And yes, Primals are considered an Earth-based 
Race since they’re based everywhere (or were…). It’s 
more about the viewer’s point of view than Earthlings’.
Earth-based Races can choose from among the 
widest variety of Classes on Dungeon Crawler World: 
Earth, including classic or Earth-based 
Classes. They’re conveniently noted with 
an Earth symbol (  ).
Amazonian 
Amazonians are a Race of tall, 
well-built humanoid women from 
Earth mythology who are known 
for their athleticism. Upon choos-
ing this Race, crawlers gain an 
additional foot in height and bulk 
up to bodybuilder levels of swole. 
Amazonians excel at contests of 
physical strength and endurance 
but have little innate magical ability. 
This Race is an ideal choice for Fighter 
and Monk-based Classes.
Prerequisites: This 
limited Race is 
only available to 
crawlers who have 
at least one Strength 
or Dexterity-based Skill 
at Rank 5+
• Size: Medium (4)
• +6 Strength
• +3 Dexterity
• +2 Bow, Endurance, and Pugilism 
Skills
• +2 DR
• Each floor, you receive a 
coupon good for one free 
training at a Weapon 
Training Guild

31
Arachnid 
The way a creepy smile spreads across a face with 
too many eyes makes the Arachnids one of the most 
mistrusted Races in the World Dungeon. They’re 
a popular choice among crawlers, especially with 
cultures that revered spiders (like the Akan peoples 
and Marvel fans who only like Spider-Man). Their 
humanoid torsos on a spider’s frame give them a 
terrifying appearance, but they are well known for 
playing beautiful harp music (using silk chords), 
weaving silken tapestries honoring their conquests, 
and obsessing over death.
Arachnids feel at home on the ceiling and hiding 
in the shadows, content to watch events play out 
while planning the moment to strike. Still, as 
much as they are obsessed with 
death and plotting, they are a 
jovial Race who express their 
creative side at every opportunity. 
Arachnids make excellent Bards 
and Rogues.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +5 Dexterity
• +3 Web Spell, which  
costs half the normal 
Mana to cast
• +2 Climbing, 
Perception, and 
Performance (with 
a stringed instrument 
specialty) Skills
• You have an innate Climb 
Move equal to your 
normal Move value, 
without needing Checks 
(unless under duress)3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 132 ---
3
Cat 
Cats are ordinary felines of unimpressive size 
common in Earth households across the world. You 
might not expect a Cat’s sleek grace and supernatural 
luck to go to their head, but Cats have considered 
themselves the true and rightful rulers of Earth since 
before the days of ancient Egypt.
Note that a recent update to Syndicate Race 
standards has benefited the Cat, among other Races.
Prerequisites: This limited Race is only 
available to crawlers who are 
already a Cat
• Size: Small (2); Animal
• +4 Dexterity
• +2 Constitution
• +1 Charisma
• −3 Strength
• +3 Cat-like Reflexes
• +2 Slice Attack Skill
• Can see in total darkness
• Advantage on Cat-like 
Reflexes Skill Checks
• Nine Lives: Take half damage from the first 9 attacks 
each day
• Vulnerability: Take double damage from Dogs and Beasts
Cat Girl/Cat Boy 
Cat Girls/Boys are special offshoots of humanity that 
possess the best qualities of a Cat (though many 
pretend to be humble and demure to hide their 
ferocity and cunning). Possessing feline traits on 
top of a Human form, Cat Girls/Boys might appear 
mostly Human, save for furry ears atop the head or 
a tail, or they might appear like a humanoid lioness/
lion in a maid’s dress. Most other species get along 
with Cat Girls/Boys, though natural felines often view 
their existence as an abomination. This Race is a great 
choice for Bard and Mage Classes.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Dexterity and Charisma
• −2 Constitution
• +2 Cat-like Reflexes, Good First Impression, Light on 
your Feet, and Slice Attack Skills
• Your Slice Attacks may add your Cha Mod to the 
damage instead of Str

• Toxoplasma G.: Once per day, your allies have Rank 
5 Catcher Skill (and the +5 DR Upgrade!) for one 
round to protect only you from attacks about to hit 
you. Those who do gain 1 AI Favor
• When dealing with felines other than Cat Girls/
Boys, you make Charisma-based Skill Checks with 
Disadvantage
Changbi Demon 
The sound of chains clinking against the floor 
heralds a Changbi Demon, an undead 
demonic crawler Race from Earth folklore. 
Changbi Demons are tall and slender with 
a pale gray-green tinge to their skin. Some 
Changbi Demons also sport horns, claws, 
and sharp teeth. Changbi Demons are 
innately tuned to sense divinity and those 
who worship gods and deities. This Race 
is an ideal choice for Fighters, Rogues, 
Assassins, and other martial Classes.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +5 Dexterity
• +3 Strength and Constitution
• −2 Charisma
• +3 Ambush and Creepy Chains (Club) Skills
• Creepy Chains: Can use any chain as a weapon (use 
the Club Weapon Skill, but with a 10ft range). A 
Changbi Demon can lengthen or shorten any chain 
by 50% once per scene
• Each time a foe touches a Changbi Demon with 
their bare skin (such as with Hand-to-Hand attacks), 
that foe takes 1d4+F Acid
• No need to breathe
• Vulnerable to Holy damage
• Cannot worship a deity
Changeling 
A Changeling wears many faces—as many as they’ve 
had the pleasure (or displeasure) of meeting. Many 
examples of shape-stealing nightmares come from 
across the galaxy, making Changelings right at home 
among the stories Earthlings warned their children 
about. Like Doppelgängers, Changelings can change 
their form, but while Doppelgängers maintain their 
base stats, Changelings apply the stats of whatever 
form they assume.3

--- PAGE 133 ---
Able to slip unseen into any crowd as an 
anonymous stranger or to infiltrate close-knit groups 
by wearing the face of a friend, Changelings make 
powerful friends and dangerous enemies. This Race is 
an ideal choice for Rogue and magic-using Classes.
• Size: Large (5)
• +3 Charisma
• +2 Intelligence
• +2 Ambush and Deception Skills
• +1 Escape Artist Skill
• Advantage on Deception Skill Checks when no 
talking is needed
• Changelings gain free access to organizations and 
producers by impersonating other crawlers and 
Syndicate celebrities, but can only use those 
relevant to the currently shifted individual
• Changeling Shapeshifting: A 
Changeling who touches a member 
of another Race can shapeshift 
themselves into that Race, building 
a “library” of Races they 
can transform into. 
A Changeling can 
shapeshift into 
another Race as 
an Action to make an 
Unopposed Deception Skill 
Check. While shapeshifted into 
that other Race, they gain that 
Race’s bonuses other than statistics 
and Skills. For example, a Changeling 
shapeshifted into a Crocodilian 
would gain the Race’s Advantage 
on Intimidation Skill Checks, DR 
Buff, bonus after a full meal, and 
additional fatigue penalty on 
Charisma-based Checks
• While shapeshifted into another 
Race, these changes are conveyed 
to World Dungeon systems, 
including information on viewers’ 
HUDs, mini-maps, and other 
systems
• Changelings can’t 
touch mimics-
type creatures. 
Don’t ask 
why or what 
happens—it’s bad

31
Crocodilian 
With a snout full of bone-chomping teeth and hands 
that will wring necks so hard that the head just falls off 
afterward, the bipedal wrecking machines known as 
Crocodilians are, pound for pound, among the most 
ferocious reptiles walking the Crawl. When it comes 
to fighting, their thick scales and predatory instincts 
serve Crocodilians very well. As an anthropomorphic 
version of one of Earth’s most vicious predators, these 
cold-blooded killers are here to prove they’re among 
the galaxy’s most dangerous denizens.
Crocodilians need to consume a large amount 
of food each day just to stay active. That hunger 
is a constant companion, but aside from that, 
a Crocodilian is a resilient, positively terrifying 
killing machine that thrives in swamps, aquatic 
environments, and petting zoos (all of which 
are rich in food). Crocodilians make excellent 
Barbarians, Fighters, and Monks.
• Size: Large (5)
• +4 Strength
• +3 Constitution
• +2 Pugilism and Powerful 
Strike Skills
• When physically menacing 
someone in person, roll 
Intimidate Skill Checks with 
Advantage
• +3 DR Buff
• +1 Buff for all of your Skill 
Checks for 1 hour after eating a 
full meal
• While you have the Fatigued 
Debuff, roll all Charisma-based 
Checks with Disadvantage
Doppelgänger 
Doppelgängers are shapeshifters, 
but they aren’t just about 
changing their appearance to 
match someone else. Earth must 
have had some really fucked 
up history for two kinds of 
shape-stealing boogey monsters 
to feature so prevalently—no 
wonder you’re so freaked out 
about your uncanny valley. In 
fact, Doppelgängers require a 3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 134 ---
3
lot of practice before they can change into someone 
specific, and even general changes are painful and 
require a basic level of artistry and a good mirror.  
A Doppelgänger can mold its malleable body like 
tough clay.
For all the flexibility of their form, Doppelgängers 
can’t change their mass, and that includes the mass 
of any equipment they are wearing or carrying, 
which must become a part of whatever form they 
take. This makes Doppelgängers a very adaptable 
Race, as they’re able to pick up something of unusual 
composition and integrate it into their own form, but 
they’re not capable of assuming identities as quickly 
or effectively as a Changeling. Doppelgängers are 
sturdy and make great front-line Fighters and Paladins.
• Size: Unchanged, but size changes  
when shifting
• +4 Constitution
• +3 Strength
• +1 Deception and Endurance Skills
• +2 DR
• Due to shifting mass, can 
determine their maximum 
weight to lift based on 
Constitution instead of 
Strength
• Advantage on Escape Artist Skill 
Checks and can make such Checks 
while being Held or watched
• Once per scene, as an Action, you can 
incorporate a held weapon into their 
mass to deal additional damage equal 
to their Con Mod. Items incorporated 
this way can’t be disarmed
• Doppelgänger Shape-Changing: 
As an Action, you can transform 
into any shape of comparable mass, 
incorporating carried and worn 
items into the new shape in the same 
percentage (that is, a Doppelgänger 
holding metal equal to half their weight 
must assume a shape that is one-third 
metal). This transformation is painful, 
causing you to mark off 1 Health Bar 
slot per change. If you attempt to 
change your shape to resemble a 
specific person or object, do so 
with an Unopposed Deception 
Skill Check

Dwarf, Classic 
Is there any RPG Race more classic than the gruff, 
bearded Dwarf? From Snow White to The Lord 
of the Rings, Dwarves have fascinated Earthlings’ 
imaginations for far too long. Shorter than a person 
and as wide as they are tall, Dwarves tend to dig and 
work underground, crafting items of unsurpassed 
beauty and durability. Dwarves are a natural fit in 
the tightest corridors of the World Dungeon, where 
their doughty endurance and keen crafting traditions 
serve them well.
Dwarves are quick to grouse about their troubles, 
even when things are otherwise going their way, and 
they rarely put up with frippery or foolishness. They 
might not all drink heavily and speak in a grumble 
through their beards, but you’d be hard-pressed to 
find one that doesn’t. Dwarves make great front-line 
Fighters and are excellent crafters, no matter what 
Class they pursue.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +4 Constitution
• +2 Intelligence
• −2 Charisma
• +3 in two different crafting Skills of your 
choice
• +2 Endurance Skill
• Can see in total darkness
• All crafting Skills can be raised to Rank 20
• When dealing with elves or fairies, make all 
Charisma-based Checks with Disadvantage
Dwarf, Fathom 
Fathom Dwarves, more so even than other 
Dwarves, have evolved and adapted to 
spelunk deep into mineshafts. They strap 
specially trained glowing lizards to their 
heads as light sources deep where the 
sun has never penetrated. No idea 
where this lizard symbiosis is from, but 
these guys are already delving so deep 
that Gandalf wrote their asses off as 
Balrog chow back on page 483 of The 
Silmarillion. Go ahead, look it up.
Fathom Dwarves are skilled 
diggers and crafters with stout, 
hardy bodies and rough skin. They 
have an edge in Constitution and 3

--- PAGE 135 ---
Strength, making them an ideal choice for Fighters, 
Barbarians, and crafting Classes where durability is as 
important as Skill.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Constitution
• +2 Strength
• +3 Engineering Skill
• +2 Dumpster Diving and Salvage Skills
• Roll d20 Checks with Advantage when earth, rocks, 
and dirt are involved
• Can produce a 15ft Cone of light from a harmless 
lizard nesting atop their heads, and can 
easily acquire a new lizard if the existing 
one is lost or killed
Elf, High 
Graceful, tall, and immortal, 
Elves are a species of 
long-limbed, pointy-eared 
humanoids with a natural 
affinity for magic. They 
often reside in forest groves, 
carefully tended over many 
Human generations to form 
natural residences, workshops, 
and libraries. If all this effortless 
aptitude seems likely to make Elves 
arrogant or snooty, well buckle up, 
brother, because they’re even worse 
than in the countless Earth stories 
that thinly veiled countless authors’ 
ear-point fetish.
Elves consider themselves the better 
of nearly all other Races, particularly 
those Races that grub in the ground like 
Dwarves and Rat-Kin. Some Elves are 
maybe just better at not being jerks 
about it. Choosing this Race ensures 
a clear mind, easy charm, and a 
complexion that Hollywood starlets 
would kill for. This Race makes an 
ideal magic-user, Bard, or anyone else 
who wouldn’t like to get their hands 
dirty or stink of… ugh, effort.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +4 Intelligence, Dexterity, 
and Charisma

31
• +2 Intimidation Skill, and you can use your Cha 
Mod
• +1 Lore Skill
• You recover Mana at twice the normal rate in a 
natural environment
• Add 1d4 to your Evade Checks
• When dealing with Dwarves, Rat-Kin, or anyone 
smelly or dirty, make all Charisma-based Checks 
with Disadvantage
• Two different Charisma-based Skills can be raised to 
Rank 20
Elf, City 
City Elves are a subspecies of Elf that make their 
home in glass skyscrapers and bustling city streets 
rather than in groves of trees or remote castles. 
Not convinced these bastards came from 
Earth? I’d dare you to check out the depths 
of Urban Fantasy, or Romantasy if you’re 
nasty—if those still existed. Instead, your 
ass is stuck in the dungeon and is going 
to have to trust me on this one.
Lithe and tall, with pale skin and 
neon-colored hair, City Elves sometimes 
favor using modern technological 
interpretations of Spells and equipment 
compared to their more rustic kin. 
City Elves do not necessarily consider 
themselves superior to all other Races 
by virtue of being Elves; it’s just that all 
others simply fall short by comparison, 
and usually because of their beliefs more 
than their appearance.
For what it’s worth, City Elves in the 
dungeon are fucking morons. They are 
most often hypocritical sycophants 
and cult members who are too dumb 
to realize they’ve been tricked into 
living in a cult. But none of that 
has to apply to you as a crawler; 
it might earn you some funny 
looks from anyone else who 
has come across another 
City Elf in the dungeon, 
though. This Race makes 
ideal Arcanists, Bards,  
or Mages.3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 136 ---
3
• Size: Medium (4)
• +6 to split as you please between Intelligence, 
Dexterity, and Charisma
• +3 Good First Impression Skill
• +2 Negotiation and Streetwise Skills
• Once per floor during a Long Rest, a City Elf can 
adjust the +4 spent between Charisma, Intelligence, 
and Dexterity, reassigning those points between 
those Stats
• When entering a settlement for the first time, make 
your first Charisma-based Check with Advantage. 
On an Amazing Success or better, you have made a 
permanent contact

Elf, Night 
Accustomed to the darkness and navigating via 
the stars, Night Elves share the lithe androgynous 
appearance of their fellow elven kin, but their skin 
tones cover the spectrum of cool colors from teal to 
deep purple. Thank Drizzt and Blizzard for making 
these an Earth staple. Night Elves have longer, wider 
ears than other elves and an even more acute sense 
of hearing. Their eyes are accustomed to low light, 
but they have difficulty seeing in bright light, whether 
natural or artificial. The high Intelligence and Dexterity 
of Night Elves make them an ideal choice for 
Arcanists, Rogues, and Mages.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Intelligence and Dexterity
• +3 Acute Ears and Hide in Shadows Skills
• Can see total darkness
• Gain Advantage when you use the Hide in Shadows 
Skill at night
• Once per day, can instruct the shadow of a living 
thing to use the Taunt Skill at Rank equal to Floor 
Number (and no Stat Mod) to pull attacks away 
from you
• Hide in Shadows and one crafting Skill of your 
choice can be raised to Rank 20
Frost Maiden 
Chilled to the core, Frost Maidens are a Fey Race of 
short humanoids with ice-cold skin, pale hair, and 
indomitable mental fortitude that originated during 
European dark ages. The icy walls around their psyche 
give Frost Maidens an Immunity to mental infirmity. 
Frost Maidens are highly charismatic and have access 
to elemental ice powers, and can gain the service of 
their Game Guide as a Manager. This Race is a strong 
choice for magic-users, Bards, and Tricksters.
• Size: Petite (3)
• +2 Charisma, Intelligence, and Dexterity
• +2 Persuasion Skill
• Melee attacks deal +1d4 Ice damage
• Roll with Advantage on Int and Con Stat Checks
• The crawler’s Game Guide becomes their Manager
• Capable of flight for up to 1 minute per scene3

--- PAGE 137 ---
Human 
You’re already a Human. I’m gonna go out on a limb 
here and guess you don’t need a description. If you 
choose this, nothing will change, except for the scant 
benefits below. Choosing to remain Human offers 
little by way of additional advantages, but the galaxy 
loves to watch Humans face the perils of the dungeon 
with only their wits and tenacity to rely on!
• Size: Typically Medium (4)
• +2 to all Stats
• At the end of each floor, roll one Skill Advancement 
Check with Advantage if that Skill is Rank 9 or less
• Gain 1 AI Favor each time you level up
• When you take damage, you may spend 1 AI Favor 
to gain DR equal to your Con (as many times as you 
have AI Favor to spend)
• Once per day, when you would make an untrained 
Skill Check on a non-Passive Utility Skill, you can roll 
as if you had 2 Ranks in the Skill
• Once per floor, you can spend an Action to remove 
any single Debuff you’re suffering from, even Injuries
Igneous 
The Earthling idea for the Igneous goes much farther 
back than the first stunt performer who threw on a 
rock costume to battle the Power Rangers. Molten 
rock flows through their veins, visible through the 
cracks in their stony flesh. This flow visibly slows when 
an Igneous is cold or injured. Igneous are unsurpassed 
in terms of endurance and stamina. While they are 
not typically the fastest creatures in the universe, they 
can occasionally move with a burst of explosive speed 
to match any erupting peak.
An Igneous’s rocky skin makes them ideally suited 
for stalking prey on their homeworld but leaves them 
incredibly conspicuous anywhere else. Of course, 
being conspicuous isn’t typically as big an issue after 
you’ve poured a fresh batch of lava all over anyone 
who might object to your presence. This Race is an 
ideal choice for any tank Class.
• Size: Large (5)
• +6 Constitution
• +4 Strength
• −2 Intelligence and Charisma
• +1 Endurance Skill
• +3 DR Buff

31
• Once per day, double your Move for 20 seconds
• As an Action, make a Con Stat Check. On Success, 
deal 1d8+F Fire damage, 5ft Burst radius
• No Survival Checks needed in harsh heat 
conditions and can breathe underwater
• Immunity to Fire damage, and vulnerable to Ice 
damage
• Ability to burrow
• Lose 1 Health Bar slot each time you access your 
Inventory (not Hotlist)
• Disadvantage on Checks to conceal your presence 
or nature (such as Stealth)3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 138 ---
3
Lajabless 
Lajabless, creatures from Caribbean folklore, 
live two lives: by day, they walk the dungeon as 
beautiful people, casting Spells with ease, but are 
weak in strength. At night, their face turns hideous 
and cavernous as their magic wanes, giving way to 
powerful strength. Lajabless must walk the balance 
between magic and martial Skill, beauty and horror, 
demon and Human.
To show they constantly straddle these worlds, 
Lajabless usually have, no matter their current aspect, 
one humanoid leg and one animal leg (often that of 
a cow or goat). The versatile shifting nature of the 
Lajabless makes this Race an ideal choice for crawlers 
who want a diverse half-caster build.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +5 Intelligence during the day, +5 Strength during 
the night3

• +2 in two Spells of your choice
• +3 in one Weapon Skill of your choice
• Advantage when using the Ambush and 
Intimidation Skill
• During the day, Strength is halved, but Spells cost 
half the Mana to cast
• During the night, Strength is doubled, but Spells 
cost double the Mana to cast
Obsidian Butterfly 
Obsidian Butterflies are much like the Aztec deity that 
inspired them. They are deadly, graceful, and absolutely 
terrifying. These skeleton-faced figures move about the 
battlefield with frightening speed, blessing their allies 
and bringing devastation to their foes.
Their wings contain hues of orange, 
red, black, and white, blending together 
in a colorful pattern. The vibrancy and 
speed of their wings can make them appear 
borne aloft by naked flame. More than one 
foe has chosen to flee the sight of an Obsidian 
Butterfly bearing down upon them.
Prerequisites: This limited Race is only available to crawlers 
who earn Rank 5+ with any Edged Weapon
• Size: Medium (4), mostly due to wings
• +3 Dexterity
• +2 Intelligence
• −4 Constitution
• +2 Intimidate and Slice Attack Skills
• +2 in a Spell of your choice
• Has four translucent butterfly wings that can reach 
up to 15 feet and deliver touch- or melee-range 
Spells
• May use Cha Mod instead of Con Mod in their 
Health Bar
• Upon entering the Sixth Floor, choose to either gain 
Stronger Wings (wings are now capable of flight for 
up to 2 minutes per scene, with +20ft Move when 
flying) or Ferocious Visage (Advantage when using 
any Skill to inspire fear or respect)
• Add 1d4 to your Evade Checks

--- PAGE 139 ---
Primal 
For the first several seasons of Dungeon Crawler World, 
all contestants started off as Primals. Primals are blank 
slates, and your appearance does not change. The 
Primal Race offers little by way of specialization, but 
the Earth Classes you’ll have access to make up for it. 
Find your current Race in this section of the book and 
apply those racial benefits. However, list your Race as 
Primal, and then apply these modifiers:
• Size: Unchanged
• −1 to all Stats
• All Skills can be raised to Rank 20
THE WORLD DUNGEON ON HARD 
MODE: PRIMALS
Primals were the first known species to conquer the 
universe. After, they seemingly disappeared and 
have since become “the boogeymen of the cosmos.” 
In the first Dungeon Crawler World seasons, every 
crawler was a Primal, but since then, they’ve been 
relegated to the back catalog, behind all of the 
shiny and popular Race choices.
Choosing a Primal is taking the World Dungeon 
on hard mode—you’re declining the many 
significant bonuses of choosing another Race 
(even plain old humans have more benefits) 
and accepting a penalty to all of your stats in 
exchange for the opportunity to raise any Skill 
above the World Dungeon’s soft cap of 15 Ranks. 
Raising a Skill to 15 is already difficult, requiring 
concentration to reach that degree of mastery. 
Primals get that challenge and say “Hold my beer” 
as they careen into maximizing as many of their 
Skills as possible. If you make this choice, we salute 
you—but don’t say we didn’t warn you.
Rat Hooligan 
Rat-Kin have a reputation for being survivors, from the 
tales of rat-people whispered around candlelight in 
ancient times to Master Splinter serving as a beloved 
sewer-bound mentor. One of the more common 
Mobs in the early floors of the World Dungeon, 
Rat-Kin have surged forth from their warrens to resist 
the wholesale slaughter of their species. A crawler 
that chooses this Race becomes one of hundreds of 
siblings across all dungeon floors. Rat-Kins’ propensity 
to hide in places considered gross or unnatural allows 
them to traverse the floors surreptitiously, gathering 
secrets and carrying messages. Rat Hooligans make 
ideal Rogues and capable magic-users.

31
• Size: Petite (3)
• +2 Dexterity
• +1 Constitution
• +2 Escape Plan and Stealth Skills
• +1 Bite and Survival Skills
• Advantage on Checks to resist hunger and thirst
• Can converse with common house rats to gather 
minimal information while in buildings
• May add Dex Mod to Bite damage instead of Str
Sasquatch 
Bigfoot. Yeti (if you choose an ice-based Class). Skunk 
Ape. The list of nicknames for these privacy-minded 
Earth creatures is almost endless, but in the end, the 
result is the same. First, you take a Human, you cross 
it with a gorilla, you make them a foot-and-a-half taller, 3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 140 ---
3
cover them with hair, and then give them size 24 feet. 
The resulting behemoth is a monstrous melee warrior 
and tank that smells like shit but hits (and smushes) 
like a sledgehammer.
Prerequisites: This limited Race is only available to 
crawlers who have attained Rank 5+ in the Smush Skill
• Size: Large (5)
• +6 Strength and Constitution
• +2 Dexterity
• −3 Intelligence
• −1 Charisma
• +3 Foot Soldier and Smush Skills
• Smush Skill can be raised to Rank 20
Tetrakai 
What you notice first says a lot 
about you. Was it the blue skin 
or the four arms? This Race is 
traditionally offered to female 
crawlers, but some male 
Tetrakai have been spotted—
literally. Male Tetrakai have 
white polka-dot spots the 
size of poker chips. Now 
you know why you don’t 
see many.
As you can imagine, having four 
arms is pretty nice, though I don’t know 
what the males do with the other three. 
Holding four items at a time offers all 
sorts of juicy benefits. Too bad you don’t 
have four actions, amirite?
• Size: Medium (4)
• +6 Dexterity
• −2 Charisma
• +2 Pugilism and Wrasslin’ Skills
• +1 in all Edged Weapon Skills
• Four Arms: Your Hands/Holding Gear slot allows for 
four items (or two weapons requiring two hands)

Tigran 
These tiger-headed humanoids stand more than six 
feet tall and are covered from head to toe in a layer 
of incredibly vibrant orange-and-black fur. They have 
the head of a tiger, a long muscular tail, and humanlike 
hands that end in wicked claws. These claws are 
excellent for attack and defense, but they can cause 
difficulties in performing small, delicate tasks such as 
picking locks. You don’t need to have fond memories 
of your Lisa Frank trapper keeper to know these tiger 
people are uniquely Earth creations.
Tigrans are cunning predators. If given their choice, 
they attack from cover, using overwhelming speed 
and ferocity rather than engaging in a drawn-out 
encounter. Although they’re incredibly stealthy, often 
choosing to walk barefoot, their coloring makes 
stealth difficult in most of the World Dungeon.
Tigrans are social creatures, especially among 
others of their own kind, but they harbor an inherent 
streak of pride. It can be difficult to change their 
minds, which makes them seem antisocial. 
Tigrans make great Barbarians, Monks, 
and Paladins.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Dexterity
• +2 Strength
• −4 Charisma
• +2 Ambush, Cat-like Reflexes, 
and Slice Attack Skills
• Can see in total darkness
• +1 DR Buff
• +10ft Move
• When attacking during a 
Surprise Action, deal ×2 
total damage with melee 
attacks
• Disadvantage on 
Dexterity-based 
Skills that require 
fine manipulation or 
motor coordination3

--- PAGE 141 ---
ALIEN RACES
In addition to Earth Races, showrunners love allowing 
Humans to choose other Syndicate Races to compete. 
Unfortunately, those Races don’t get access to 
the Earth-based Classes. Instead, they gain a small 
benefit—usually popularity among their audience.
Bune
Bunes are a slight, dragon-like people with a calm sense 
of superiority; if Crocodilians are the Barbarians of the 
lizard world, Bunes are the elves. They are naturally 
peaceful, but they can be clever Fighters. As part of the 
Syndicate, the Bune home world once hosted Dungeon 
Crawler World. Although Bunes can’t use their leathery 
wings to fly right away, their wings gain strength at higher 
Levels and allow for short-distance flight. This Race is an 
ideal choice for Rogue and magic-using Classes.
Prerequisites: This limited Race is only available to 
crawlers with 3 or more Popularity
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Intelligence
• +2 Dexterity
• −2 Constitution
• +3 Determine Value, Fabricate, and Negotiation 
Skills
• At Level 50, +2 Dexterity and gain wings capable of 
flying up to 500ft per scene
• +1 Popularity each time you roll a Critical Hit in 
combat
Caprid
Caprids are a Syndicate Race of bipedal, goat-headed 
humanoids—their hands are usually Human while 
their feet can be hooved or toed. Caprids come in 
a variety of color morphs and can possess horns in 
many shapes and patterns; some known Caprid colors 
include pitch-black, dappled white, and caramel, gray, 
or deep brown.
Rich in both power and resources, Caprids hold 
a strong standing in the Syndicate, and multiple 
sponsor entities have Caprid board members. The 
high intelligence and charisma of Caprids make them 
an ideal choice for magic users, con artists, and cult-
leader hopefuls.
• Size: Large (5)
• +3 Intelligence and Charisma

31
• −2 Strength
• +3 Find Crawler, Investigation, and Leadership Skills
• Find Crawler and Persuasion Skills can be raised to 
Rank 20
• +1 Popularity each time you roll a Critical Hit on 
a Charisma Skill Check or on a Spell Skill Check 
outside of combat
Grulke
You are a toad. A five-foot-tall toad person who once 
conquered planets, not that anyone remembers. If 
anyone calls you a frog, make them regret it. The 
Grulke are a militaristic Race of toad warriors, though 
they have lost much of their organization as a Race 
and are now more often seen solo in mercenary 
halls. If only a Grulke were able to unite the disparate 
battalions and restore honor to their people, an 
up-and-comer who hasn’t been poisoned by infighting 
and politics. Oh, if only there were someone worthy…
Prerequisites: This limited Race is only available to 
crawlers who have Rank 5+ in the Jumping or Light on 
Your Feet Skill
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Dexterity
• +2 Strength
• −2 Charisma
• +3 in either Jumping or Light on Your Feet Skills
• +2 Zone of Control and a Reach Weapon Skill of 
your choice
• Tongue Lashing: Ranged attack; [Rank = Floor 
Dex to hit. 1d8 + Str, Bludgeoning, Number] + 
30ft range. Add 1d8 at Rank 5, 10, and 15. Rank is 
always equal to the Floor Number and cannot be 
raised by other means
• Gain a +2 DR breastplate (Torso) with your Grulke 
Battalion crest, not that it means much anymore
• Troll-type enemies have Advantage on Wrasslin’ 
Checks against you, and when successful, they  
lick you
• +1 Popularity when a troll-type enemy licks you or 
when you achieve an Amazing Success or better on 
an Attack against a troll-type enemy
• +1 Popularity when you score a Critical Hit on a 
larger foe in combat3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 142 ---
3
Hobgoblin
A Hobgoblin is what happens when a lady Troll 
manages to get a Goblin drunk enough to talk 
herself into his pants. While that description makes 
them sound like they come from bawdy Earth 
Bards, this alien Race of explosive hooligans is 
a plague among the stars. Large, muscular, and 
smart, Hobgoblins excel at trapmaking, explosives 
management, and all-out mayhem. Unfortunately, 
these guys are so ugly that even Gorgons lose their 
lunch looking upon them, and they’ve suffered a few 
nerfs in the most recent balancing patch. This Race is 
best suited for Rogue and Fighter-based Classes.
Prerequisites: This limited Race is only available to 
crawlers who have Rank 5+ in the Explosives Handling 
Skill and any Trap-based Skill
• Size: Medium (4)
• +1 Dexterity
• −5 Charisma. Charisma is capped at 10
• +3 in all Trap-based and Explosive-based Skills
• +1 Regeneration Skill
• Free access to all Hobgoblin Sapper 
Workshops
• At the end of each floor, roll 
one Explosive or Trap-based 
Skill Advancement Check with 
Advantage
• All explosives and trap-making Skills 
can be raised to Rank 20
• +1 Popularity when you kill an enemy 
with a trap or explosive once per scene
Pocket Kuma
A Pocket Kuma is an adorable and 
diminutive hybrid of a bear, a capybara, 
and a sugar glider that comes from 
beyond the stars. Their small bodies 
and oversized eyes made them 
absolutely adorable, and they were 
quickly put into service as pets by the 
High Elves who bred them specifically 
for that purpose.
However, these cute little 
abominations learned how to think, 
which inspired mass genocide of their 

species. Fortunately, a few clever specimens managed 
to escape, thus perpetuating their existence and 
eventual spread throughout the galaxy.
A Pocket Kuma’s oversized eyes give them the ability 
to see incredibly well in day or night. Despite ranking 
among the weakest and most fragile of Races, they 
are some of the most agile and nimble creatures in the 
galaxy. It’s not uncommon for them to leap up to ten 
times their own body length with a running start, or 
half that from standing.
Although their dexterous paws have opposable 
thumbs, they’re simply too small to wield or use any 
weapons or items that aren’t specifically designed for 
them, making them poor warriors. Members of this 
Race are ideal as Bards, Rogues, or magic-users.
• Size: Small (2); Animal
• +5 Dexterity and Charisma
• −4 Strength. Strength is capped at 10
• −4 Constitution
• +2 Bite, Dodge, and Slice Attack Skills
• +1 Ambush Skill
• You roll with Advantage on all 
Charisma-based Checks
• Can see in total darkness
• Take no damage from falling
• Light on Your Feet Skill can 
be raised to Rank 20
• You deal half damage 
with Strength-based 
melee weapons
• Vulnerable to 
Bludgeoning damage
• +1 Popularit y when you act 
in the Surprise Round of a 
combat or roll a Critical Fail 
on an Evade Check
Pterolykos
Powerful and beautiful, the 
Pterolykos is the very picture 
of dangerous grace on land or 
air. Resembling a humanoid 
wolf with resplendent multi-
hued feathery wings, 
Pterolykos inspire 3

--- PAGE 143 ---
veneration as icons of strength, versatility, and beauty. 
Their mournful howl is known to haunt the dreams of 
those who hear it.
While Pterolykoses don’t have keen eyes, their noses 
rank among the most well-developed in the galaxy. 
They’re known to chase prey for miles, tracking them 
through the air by scent before swooping down to tear 
their victims apart with their powerful jaws.
A Pterolykos can’t help but be incredibly expressive 
in face and body, which is perfect for grand displays 
of emotion and theatrical gestures, but it makes lying 
and deception incredibly difficult. It’s a wonderfully 
dramatic gesture to underline a point by snapping 
their wings open, but it’s a challenge to pretend 
they’re angry or upset when their wolf tail won’t stop 
wagging. This Race is ideal for any Bard-based or 
magic-using Class.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +4 Charisma
• +2 Dexterity
• +3 Bite, Performance, and Tracking Skills
• +1 Diplomacy Skill
• Has wings capable of flight for up to 50 seconds 
per scene
• Disadvantage on all Checks to conceal emotion or 
presence (such as Deception and Stealth)
• +1 Popularity when you roll a Critical Hit on a 
Charisma Skill Check
Skyfowl
Regal. Devout. Loyal. Kind of opinionated. All 
of these describe the majestic Skyfowl people 
found throughout the World Dungeon and 
the rest of the galaxy. Skyfowl are known for two 
things: they’re devout warriors willing to protect their 
honor and social standing, and they’re kind of jerks to 
everyone about it.
There are dozens of flights of Skyfowl, and their 
physical characteristics depend on their origin. Those 
hailing from the wilds of the World Dungeon may 
have bestial hawk-like characteristics or the dense 
muscles of a rooster protecting his flock; those from 
cities might have dull-colored feathers and small wings 
suitable for survival in crowded settlements.
No matter where they originate or what their role 
is in a Crawl, all Skyfowl believe in the superiority 

31
of those who don’t just dream of flying high in the 
clouds but can do it. That, and feathers beat boring fur 
and itchy scales, no contest. This Race makes a good 
choice for any non-frontline Fighter Class.
• Size: Medium (4)
• +3 Dexterity and Charisma
• −1 Strength and Constitution
• +2 Slice Attack Skill
• +2 in all Charisma-based Skills
• Advantage on the Perception Skill for observing 
things 10+ feet away
• Capable of flight for up to 3 minutes per scene. 
However, Skyfowl who choose a Cleric-based Class 
have their wings clipped and can only make short 
hops of up to 10 seconds per scene when flying
• +1 Popularity when you roll a Critical Hit on a 
Leadership, Perception, Persuasion, or Taunt Skill 
Check3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 144 ---
3
CLASSES
Over the next 17 pages, you’ll find Class options 
that appear in the books and are available to most 
crawlers. Your choice of Race should influence the 
three Class options the System AI gives you. Discuss 
your desires with the GM beforehand.
Classes are divided into a bunch of categories, but 
one big category is the base Class. Barbarians, Bards, 
Clerics, and Mages are categories of similar Classes 
familiar to fans of tabletop roleplaying games and 
Dungeon Crawler Carl alike.
Any crafting tables you gain through your Class 
appear as soon as you acquire a personal space 
(Fourth Floor or later).
At the end of this section, you’ll find a Class Point 
Buy system to help you design your own unique Class! 
Several of these Classes have unique benefits you 
won’t find on the point cost charts, because you’re a 
unique snowflake.
EARTH CLASSES
In addition to the hundreds of possible Classes 
(some assembly required) from previous editions of 
the Crawl, the Borant corporation is proud to offer 
a variety of Classes inspired by Earth! These Classes 
are only available to crawlers who select an Earth-
based Race (see p. 128). As an incentive for crawlers 
to select these special Classes, they also gain a Silver 
Earth Box (GMs can find these on p. 321). The box 
contains an Earth Hobby Potion that guarantees 
3 Skill Ranks in one of the many past times that 
fascinated the hosts of this cycle’s Crawl, plus at 
least one bonus item!
You can tell Earth Classes, like Earth Races, by the 
beautiful marble (  ) next to the name of the Class. 
ARCANIST
Arcanists are magical artisans with secret knowledge 
of the processes required to manufacture arcane 
items. These crafters can create a broad range of 
traditional and not-so-traditional magical items. 
Making arcane items often takes considerable 
time and requires specific, sometimes hard-to-
get ingredients. Arcanists maintain secrecy over 
their crafting recipes and are often willing to pay 
handsomely for new recipes in their particular fields 
of expertise.

Boring Ol’ Arcanist
Class Type: Arcanist
You decided long ago that you wanted to craft powerful 
magical items, but really never settled on a specialty. 
You’re pretty good in some areas and just average in 
others. At higher Levels, you may gain some additional 
expertise, but for the most part, you are a generalist. Still, 
when someone needs that special arcane item to defeat 
that big Boss, you might just be the Arcanist for the job. 
And if not, well, you’re probably the only Arcanist they 
can find, so you’ll make do.
• +3 Intelligence
• +2 Dexterity
• +5 Arcane Skill
• +3 Salvage Skill
• +2 in a crafting Skill of your choice
• +1 in a crafting Skill of your choice
• Tier 1 Arcanist table
• Arcane and one crafting Skill can be raised to Rank 20
Alchemist
Class Type: Arcanist
Crafting arcane liquids, now that’s a fun thing! You 
can make all kinds of potions for all sorts of occasions. 
Plus, you’ve messed up enough potions to know 
how to make some pretty cool poisons, ranging from 
merely annoying to extremely deadly. Luckily, you’ve 
also learned, often the hard way, how to negate these 
poisons. Well, mostly. Don’t drink that gray one, just 
in case.
• +3 Constitution and Intelligence
• +5 Alchemy Skill
• +3 Infusion Skill
• Immunity to Poison
• Tier 1 Alchemy table
• At the end of each floor, add 1 to your Skill 
Advancement Checks for Alchemy and Infusion
• Alchemy Skill can be raised to Rank 20
Douchy Wizard School Wand-Maker 
Class Type: Arcanist
Everyone wants that special wand. Rare materials, 
finely sculpted form, access to powerful magics. Well, 
someone has to fill all these custom orders! Not only 3

--- PAGE 145 ---
can you make wands, but you can also make fancy 
staves and… toys? Well, maybe wand-shaped toys… 
not asking why you want those. All of these can be 
used by their wielder to focus their arcane energies 
and do wondrous things. Or maybe just make light 
and shoot Magic Missiles—to each their own.
• +5 Intelligence
• +1 Strength and Dexterity
• −2 Charisma
• +5 Arcane Skill
• +2 Lore, Negotiation, and Salvage Skills
• Tier-1 crafting table of your choice
• Arcanist Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Infernocrafter
Class Type: Arcanist
Lighting stuff on fire is fun. You make a lot of things 
that inherently burn with magical fire, including 
flaming weapons and fiery magical items. Flaming 
arrows? Check. Flaming swords? Check.
• +3 Strength and Constitution
• +1 Dexterity
• +5 Arcane Skill
• +3 Smithing Skill
• Resistance to Fire damage
• Tier 1 Arcanist table
• Tier 1 Smithing table
• Arcane Skill can be raised to Rank 20
Prison Tattoo Artist 
Class Type: Arcanist
Sometimes you just gotta make do with the tools you 
have on hand and hope for the best. They might not 
be pretty, but they do the job.
Who are we kidding? You can’t tell what these 
motherfucking tattoos are supposed to be! Just don’t 
say that to the lifer who’s been working on them all 
month for you.
You can create functional, but not aesthetically 
pleasing, magical tattoos that grant a wide range of 
arcane abilities for a limited amount of time.

31
• +3 Constitution and Dexterity
• +2 Intelligence
• +5 Tattoo Artistry Skill
• +3 Calligraphy Skill
• +2 Dagger Skill
• Tier 1 Tattoo chair (table)
• Tattoo Artistry Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
BARBARIAN
Barbarians are lightly-armored, rage-filled warriors. 
Many can harness that rage to gain special abilities. 
Others are just pretty good at smashing things. Many 
have thick, incomprehensible accents and are just 
better off shouting at you instead of trying to hold a 
civil conversation. Talking generally isn’t their strong 
suit anyway—just give them something to smash.3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 146 ---
3
Boring Ol’ Barbarian
Class Type: Barbarian
Like parading around in a loincloth and bashing 
heads? This is the Class for you! Just remember the 
Barbarian’s motto: what doesn’t kill you makes you 
stronger—as well as probably bleed a whole lot in the 
process.
• +6 Strength
• +5 Constitution
• +3 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Endurance Skill
• +1 Intimidate Skill
• Rage (Benefit): Your melee attacks deal +1 damage 
for each Health Bar slot you have lost
• +2 DR Buff
Gladiator
Class Type: Barbarian, Bard
You were once a slave, but now you fight for glory! 
Well, you’re probably still a slave (you are trapped 
in a world-spanning dungeon where you’re fighting 
hordes of enemies for the entertainment of countless 
strangers, after all), but you do get some additional 
perks—as long as you manage to stay alive. You’ve 
been used and abused, but that has only toughened 
you and made you stronger. So strong, in fact, that 
your masters might be fearful of you and want to 
knock you down a peg. Or ten.
• +3 Strength, Constitution, and Charisma
• +2 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Performance and Intimidation Skills
• +1 Attack of Opportunity Skill
• Rage (Benefit): Your melee attacks deal +1 damage 
for each Health Bar slot you have lost
• +1 DR Buff
• Once per combat, after you kill an enemy, you can 
make an Unopposed Performance Skill Check. On 
an Amazing Success or better, gain +1 Popularity
• One Weapon Skill can be raised to Rank 20
Harii 
Class Type: Barbarian, Rogue
You’re a lean, mean killing machine. And you look 
good in black. Like, all-black, head to toe. Some think 

you’re a ghostly myth, but others know better, as you 
use your stealth to terrorize your enemies at night, 
making them think you’re some sort of demonic spirit.
• +1 Strength, Dexterity, and Intelligence
• +4 Ambush and Stealth Skills
• +2 in one Weapon Skill of your choice
• Rage (Benefit): Your melee attacks deal +1 damage 
for each Health Bar slot you have lost
• +1 DR Buff
• Can see in total darkness
• Access to the Desperado Club
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Feral Cat Berserker 
Class Type: Barbarian
Cats couldn’t care less about you and your needs. Feral 
cats somehow manage to care even less as they barely 
eke out their own survival, living off cockroaches and 
rodents of unusual size. And sometimes things just get 
a little out of hand—out of paw?
Prerequisites: This limited Class is only available to 
cat-based Races, such as Cat, Cat Girl, and Tigran
• +2 Dexterity, Strength, and Charisma
• +3 Slice Attack and Unarmed Combat Skills
• +2 Dodge Skill
• +1 Ambush Skill
• Rage (Benefit): Your melee attacks deal +1 damage 
for each Health Bar slot you have lost
• +1 DR Buff
• Can see in total darkness
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Shieldmaiden 
Class Type: Barbarian, Fighter
You are a fierce and skilled warrior who strikes fear 
in the hearts of your enemies—especially all those 
boys who used to bully you as a child. When you’re 
not busy kicking ass and taking names, you might be 
found working out in the gym, helping your family, 
or volunteering in your community. You can bring 
home the bacon and fry it up in a pan—after you hunt 
down the boar and butcher it, just like you did to that 
wretched boy Dustin who used to tease you and pull 
your pigtails.3

--- PAGE 147 ---
Prerequisite: This limited Class is only available to 
female crawlers
• +3 Strength, Dexterity, and Charisma
• −2 Intelligence
• +5 Shield Block Skill
• +2 in one Weapon Skill of your choice
• Rage (Benefit): Your melee attacks deal +1 damage 
for each Health Bar slot you have lost
• +1 DR Buff
• One Weapon Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• Add your Str Mod a second time to your melee 
attack damage against males
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
BARD
Bards are storytellers, musicians, and poets. They 
are the custodians of the oral tradition, keeping 
track of historic people and events and sharing that 
information in a creative and entertaining way. Some 
just happen to be more entertaining than others 
(lookin’ at you, Jeff Hays).
Some Bard-type Classes are eligible for Patrons, but 
you’ll have to find someone willing and able to serve as 
your Patron. It’s fun, like a Quest to find one. The GM 
has information on the process and some characters 
who might fill this role (see Bard Patronage, p. 315).
Boring Ol’ Bard
Class Type: Bard
Every town and village has that one Bard who parties 
hard all night yet still manages to look refreshed in the 
morning. They drink, sing or play an instrument, then 
drink some more, pass out, then wake up to do it all 
over again the next day. If mead and beer weren’t so 
rich in carbs and sugars, they’d probably already be 
dead by now.
• +3 Charisma
• +3 Performance Skill
• +1 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 in a Spell of your choice
• +2 Diplomacy Skill
• +1 Good First Impression and Lore Skills
• Access to all membership-based clubs, regardless of 
current memberships

31
• Membership in the Dungeon Book of the Floor 
Club (all Spells)
• Free room at all saferooms
• You may gain access to a Patron
• You pay +1 Mana to cast Spells that are not 
“Favored: Bard”
Artist Alley Mogul 
Class Type: Bard, Merchant
This Charisma and Intelligence-based Class is a 
modern-day merchant, using the siren song of 
merchandise to cast a spell on the wallets and purses 
of their prey. Using their superior artistic talent to 
entertain and entice fellow nerds, the Artist Alley 
Mogul travels the world to sell their copyright-infringing 
wares. While not particularly menacing physically, this 
plucky merchant is extremely difficult to hurt.
A recent balance patch hit the Class, increasing 
gold-generating potency while reducing survivability. 
Members of this Class receive the following benefits:
• +5 Dexterity
• +5 Charisma
• +2 Dodge, Negotiation, and Pathfinder Skills
• +2 Shield Spell
• A 25% discount at all stores plus a 15% bonus to 
money earned from sales
• 10% interest earned on all coins upon descent to 
the next floor
• Dodge Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby 
Potion
Former Child Actor 
Class Type: Bard
This rare subclass is an offshoot of the Bard Class. It can 
only be obtained by crawlers who have both earned 
the “Cut!” achievement and reached at least one trillion 
views. Once a spoiled brat superstar, then addicted to 
drugs, you have crawled back from the brink stronger 
than ever. You’re ready for your comeback. This 
Charisma and Chance-based Class could go either way. 
You’ll either rise to the top, or you’ll be dead in a ditch 
in a week. After a balance patch, it’s slightly more likely 
you’ll end up dead in that ditch, but this is your chance 
to prove them wrong!3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 148 ---
3
This unique Earth Class is based on the Bard/Rogue 
Jack-Of-All-Trades subclass, but with a few distinctive 
differences. In addition to the following benefits, the 
most distinct aspect of this multi-faceted Class is the 
Rank 3 Character Actor Skill. This Skill increases in 
Rank only upon descent to the next floor.
Prerequisites: Must have Popularity 3+, receiving the 
Cut! achievement, to take this Class
• +10 Charisma
• +3 Character Actor Skill
• +2 Cockroach Skill
• Add 1 to your Skill Advancement Checks for 
Charisma-based Skills
• Immunity to Poison and all diseases
• The Manager Benefit
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
NecroBard
Class Type: Bard, Necromancer
This unusual Class combines one of the most-
loved occupations with one of the most reviled. 
Necromancers specialize in magic related to raising 
the dead. Bards must choose an entertainment-based 
Skill. Depending on this choice, whether it be singing, 
the kazoo, or storytelling, the resulting crawler will use 
this Skill to either entertain, protect, or glamour both 
the living and the dead. The NecroBard receives the 
following benefits:
• +3 to Intelligence, Constitution, and Charisma
• −2 Strength
• +4 Performance Skill
• +3 Turn Undead and Panty Dropper Spells
• Access to all membership-based clubs, regardless of 
current memberships
• Free room at all saferooms
• You pay +1 Mana to cast Spells that are not 
“Favored: Bard” or that don’t deal Necrotic damage
Poet Laureate 
Class Type: Bard
The spoken word is your jam. Rather than singing 
or playing an instrument, you craft entertaining and 
usually scandalous verses about the rich and famous. 
This not only endears you to the common folk, but it 

also enables you to use your words to convince others 
to do your will.
• +3 Intelligence
• +2 Charisma
• +5 Performance Skill with the written word specialty
• +2 Earworm (as spoken word poetry), Heal Others, 
and Shield Spells
• Access to all membership-based clubs, regardless of 
current memberships
• You pay +1 Mana to cast Spells that are not 
“Favored: Bard”
• Performance Skill can be raised to 20
• You must choose a Patron. The GM will give you  
a choice of at least two options when you select  
this class.
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby 
Potion
Professional Roadie 
Class Type: Bard, Rogue
Considered by some to be the backup singer to a 
Bard, the Professional Roadie possesses powers that 
can boost their comrades and maximize sonic effects. 
Whether working on a team or taking your act solo, 
the Professional Roadie has a wealth of experience to 
draw on and has dealt with the most difficult patrons. 
The ability to sort out broken equipment and manage 
healing elixirs makes you invaluable to a group trying 
to survive the Floor.
The Professional Roadie spends a long time 
exploring the World Dungeon, utilizing their Skills 
to bargain for food and lodging from others. Highly 
versatile, a Professional Roadie often has a wealth of 
contacts on call should they need favors, information, 
or money that is owed to them. You also tell the best 
stories and can hypnotize a crowd with tales of days 
gone by and gigs you’ve played.
• +8 split between Strength, Constitution, and 
Charisma
• +4 Performance Skill, with a guitar specialty
• +3 Negotiation Skill
• +1 Iron Stomach and Repair Skills
• Advantage on Checks against Poison or effects that 
give the Shit-Faced Debuff3

--- PAGE 149 ---
• At the start of each combat, you may declare that 
all the damage you deal is Sonic damage
• Roll with Advantage when making a Repair Skill 
Check
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Spellbinder
Class Type: Bard
Everyone loves a good story, and most Bards are 
pretty good at telling them. You, on the other hand, 
are the master weaver of fantastical tales. Glorious 
adventures are your forte, and you effortlessly bring 
even the most dry and voluminous tomes to life with 
your passionate narration (with the exception 
perhaps of those from authors who seem to 
write several 1,000-page books a year, with 
a never-ending narrative). Your storytelling 
demands the rapt attention of all who hear, 
even when they’d rather ignore you. Like in 
the midst of battle. Or during sex. Your 
oration is so immersive that your listeners 
can’t help but feel a sense of loss when the 

31
story eventually ends, making them yearn for the next, 
even though it might be years before it reaches their 
ears. (Yeah, thanks for that, Jeff Hays).
• +2 Charisma and Intelligence
• +2 Good First Impression, Lore, and Performance 
Skills
• +2 in Hot Stuff Aura and Panty Dropper Spells
• Add your Cha Mod a second time when making a 
Cha Skill Check during a potentially hostile situation
• Access to the Spellbook of the Floor club (“Favored: 
Bard” Spells only)
• Once per day, you can draw the attention of 
everyone on the battlefield for a round, 
preventing them from attacking (this 
includes party members, Mobs, and 
minions, but not Bosses)3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 150 ---
3
CLERIC
Clerics cozy up to a deity and hope for a measure 
of its power. They’re not necessarily true believers, 
but they do need to keep their god’s rules and 
regulations. And the gods are fickle bastards.
Boring Ol’ Cleric
Class Type: Cleric
Whether do-gooders or downright evil, Clerics exist 
ostensibly to serve their god and lead their god’s 
followers. Some do this with loyalty and reverence. 
Others do so out of fear or in hopes of rewards. Either 
way, being a Cleric has its ups and downs, sometimes 
leaving you dirt-poor and other times providing you 
with that private jet you “need” to serve your god.
• +4 Charisma
• +3 Intelligence
• +2 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +3 Religion Skill
• +2 Heal Others, Shield, and Turn Undead Spells
• Access to the Spell Book of the Level club 
(“Favored: Cleric” Spells only)
• Access to Club Vanquisher
• Must worship a deity (see Deities & Worship, p. 163)
• You cannot choose a Cleric-type Class if you have 
access to the Desperado Club
Black Inquisitor General
Class Types: Cleric, Mage, Paladin
You are a true believer who seeks out and kills those 
who have betrayed the faith… and you might enjoy 
this sacred duty a little too much. Yeah, who are we 
kidding? You’re a psychopath who’s out to inflict pain 
on others, and you’re using your deity as a convenient 
excuse.
• +3 Strength and Intelligence
• +1 Charisma
• −2 Constitution
• +3 Find Trap Skill
• +3 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Trap Engineer Skill
• +2 in a Spell of your choice
• +1 Religion Skill

• Can see in total darkness
• Must worship a deity (see Deities & Worship, p. 163)
• Access to all membership-based clubs, regardless of 
current memberships
Santero 
Class Type: Cleric
You can call upon powerful spirits for aid as you provide 
guidance and protection to others, and you do it with 
color and flair! This Class is a hybrid Necromancer Cleric 
with tanking and support tendencies.
• +3 Strength and Charisma
• +2 Constitution
• −2 Intelligence
• +2 Heal Others, Shield, and Soul Collector Spells
• +2 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Religion Skill
• +1 Endurance Skill
• Access to the Dungeon Book of the Floor club 
(“Favored: Cleric” Spells only)
• Access to Club Vanquisher
• Must worship a deity (see Deities & Worship, p. 163)
• You cannot choose this Class if you have access to 
the Desperado Club
DRUID
Druids practice magic focused on the natural world, 
typically as defenders of the wild. Their magic grants 
them Spells that harm, heal, and manipulate the 
environment.
Boring Ol’ Druid
Class Type: Druid
Typical tree-hugging nature lovers, Druids are 
protectors of flora and fauna alike. Sometimes they 
can get a bit overprotective. Don’t get caught littering, 
as they’re more than willing to exploit ecological 
forces to punish their enemies. So pick up your trash, 
or else your pulverized bones will serve as bricks for a 
retaining wall around some Druid’s garden.
• +2 Intelligence, Constitution, and Dexterity
• +3 Nature’s Breath Spell
• +3 in a Spell of your choice
• +2 in a Spell of your choice3

--- PAGE 151 ---
• +2 Survival Skill
• Your Mana recovers at twice the normal rate in a 
natural environment
• Access to the Dungeon Book of the Floor club 
(“Favored: Druid” Spells only)
Herbalist 
Class Type: Arcanist, Druid
You’ve spent years mastering the arcane properties of 
herbs—not the boring culinary kind, but the kind that 
make people question their life choices and maybe 
make a few more bad ones along the way. Every herb 
is a piece of the puzzle, every blend a calculated risk. 
The dungeon is your garden, and you harvest it with 
the enthusiasm of someone who genuinely does not 
understand the concept of “too much.”
• +2 Constitution and Intelligence
• +2 Alchemy, Cooking, First Aid, and Survival Skills
• +2 Nature’s Breath and Dirt Clod Spells
• Your Mana recovers at twice the normal rate 
in a natural environment
Lifebringer
Class Type: Druid
You’ve traveled the wasteland, past former 
refineries, down furious roads, and around 
thunderous strongholds. You’re a survivor, and 
you’ve learned how to restore the dead lands 
and help flora to grow and thrive. While others 
fought the limited resources, often wearing nothing 
but chaps and some poorly applied sunscreen, you 
sought to bring life back to the desert. When you 
encountered lost souls, you took them in and helped 
them find their way, both figuratively and spiritually. 
You only wish you could get rid of all that sand that 
keeps getting stuck in the most uncomfortable places. 
There’s gotta be a spell for that!
• +2 Constitution
• +1 Intelligence
• +2 First Aid, Pathfinder, Regeneration, and Survival Skills
• +2 Nature’s Breath Spell
• +1 Rank in all Spells with the Heal keyword
• Once per day, you can grant Regeneration at your 
Skill Rank to all party members within 30 feet for 10 
minutes

31
PHysicker
Class Type: Druid
Your calling is to heal and protect others, and Mother 
Nature gives you the tools to do so. The natural 
environment comes to your aid in curing the physical 
ailments of the sick and protecting the weak. While 
some might think your “home remedies” are crude 
and archaic, they are every bit as effective as other 
magic and modern medicine (though they can get a 
bit smelly and gross by comparison!). I mean, leeches 
aren’t everyone’s cup of tea, and sometimes your 
remedies are slow to effect, but they can’t deny how 
much better they feel after a good bloodletting…3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 152 ---
3
• +3 Constitution and Intelligence
• +3 Nature’s Breath and Oakhide Spells
• +2 Rootfoot and Solsplash Spells
• Double Mana regeneration when outdoors
• Able to grant +1 DR to your party for 1 scene, once 
per day
Shepherd 
Class Type: Druid
Considered by some to be pacifists, Shepherds do 
their best to maintain an appearance of docility 
before unleashing their most potent weapons: their 
herds. Trained in the arts of healing, animal care, and 
protection, you have dedicated yourself to protecting 
your flock, no matter what form that may take. It may 
be a herd of goats, several cast-off Robogolems, or 
even the people you’re traveling with, but once you 
decide they’re part of your family? May the higher 
powers protect those transgressors who attempt to 
harm them.
• +2 Intelligence, Charisma, and Constitution
• +3 Animal Handling Skill
• +2 Pathfinder Skill
• +2 Nature’s Breath and Drain Life Spells
• You can see twice as far as most creatures
• Your Mana recovers at twice the normal rate in a 
natural environment
• The Shepherd may not use melee weapons other 
than Herding Weapons (see p. 182)
• Gain a friendly Pet
• Pets in your Herd gain +2 DR
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
FIGHTER
Fighters are versatile combatants trained in all 
manner of martial weapons. They are durable 
damage-dealing frontliners, generally with good 
armor and lots of Hit Points.
Boring Ol’ Fighter
Class Type: Fighter
You’re not sure which Class to pick, so why not stick 
with the classic Boring Ol’ Fighter? No big decisions 
to make here—just run up and hit stuff. You’ve got 

decent fighting ability but really suck at magic and 
Spells. Oh, well. Those things run out anyway, and 
why bother counting and calculating when you can 
just throw hands or get stabby with the bad guys? 
Nothing is as sure and consistent as punching, kick -
ing, bludgeoning, hacking, and slashing your way 
through Mobs.
• +2 Strength and Constitution
• +5 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +3 Dodge Skill
• +2 to your choice of two of the following Skills: 
Aiming, Attack of Opportunity, Catcher, Shield 
Block, or Zone of Control Skills
• Can access any Weapon Training Guild. Upon arriv-
al on each floor, you receive a coupon good for one 
free training at a Weapon Training Guild
Pit Fighter 
Class Type: Fighter
Although you might not wear furs and carry a spiked 
stick, you’re often mistaken for a Barbarian. Unlike 
those rage-filled Barbarians, though, Pit Fighters are 
much more cunning and adept at survival, especially 
in close-quarters combat. You’ll use anything at your 
disposal to defeat your opponent, including the pit itself.
• +3 Dexterity
• +2 Intelligence
• +1 Strength
• +3 Attack of Opportunity and Dirty Fighting Skills
• +2 Dodge and Improvised Weapons Skills
• +2 DR Buff
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Shotgun Messenger 
Class Type: Fighter
Sometimes you gotta make sure someone gets the 
message, especially when it’s time for your pregnant 
daughter’s ex-boyfriend to show up at the courthouse 
and do the right thing. In those cases, the Shotgun 
Messenger guarantees that message lands the way it’s 
supposed to—one way or another.
• +2 Strength, Constitution, and Dexterity
• −2 Charisma3

--- PAGE 153 ---
• +5 in a Ranged Weapon Skill
• +2 Aiming and Intimidate Skills
• +1 in all muscle-powered movement-related Skills
• Can access any Weapon Training Guild. Each floor, 
you receive a coupon good for one free training at 
a Weapon Training Guild
• Access to the Desperado Club
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Straight-to-DVD Action Hero 
Class Type: Fighter
While A-Listers get to star in big-budget blockbust-
er movies, the Straight-to-DVD Action Hero barely 
makes enough to cover his rent and groceries. Forced 
to do his own stunts, the Straight-to-DVD Action 
Hero knows the basics of stunt work and weapons 
handling, though they’re also worse for wear due to 
the perpetually hazardous learning process. This is a 
Fighter subclass.
Straight-to-DVD Action Heroes receive the follow-
ing benefits:
• +3 Strength, Constitution, Dexterity, and Charisma
• −2 Intelligence
• +2 Unarmed Combat Skill
• +1 Driving, Running, and Performance Skills
• Take no damage from falling
• +1 DR
• The Manager Benefit
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Sword and Boarder
Class Type: Fighter
Some people excel at fighting, but you specialize in 
taking ships and buildings. Often the first one through 
the breach, you’re not afraid to charge ahead and  
clear the room while your allies filter in behind you. It’s 
not like you prefer to charge in mindlessly, but if you 
have to, you become a rampaging juggernaut who 
gets in, inflicts damage, and holds the line while others 
catch up.
Using your massive shield to keep yourself safe, 
you prefer to use the terrain around you to pin your 
foes down. They may have the numbers, but even a 
war party of ravenous Crocodilians would struggle 

31
to break past you! Your only weakness is that you 
cannot do things in half-measures: once you’re sent 
in, you’re gonna need a plan to get out if you can’t 
hold your ground.
• +2 Strength, Constitution, and Dexterity
• −2 Intelligence
• +5 Shield Block Skill
• +3 in an Edged Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Attack of Opportunity and Catcher Skills
• Access to the Desperado Club3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 154 ---
3
Monster Truck Driver 
Class Type: Fighter
You’re the type who walks down a nursing home 
hallway and doesn’t veer from your path, no matter how 
many shoulder-checks you have to deliver to grannies 
recovering from carpal tunnel surgery. You specialize 
in loud entrances, poor decisions, and turning perfectly 
good terrain into a highlight reel. This Class uses speed 
and size as both offense and defense, whether on wheel 
or heel, to make the crawler into an excellent tank.
Prerequisite: This limited Class is only available to 
crawlers who have Rank 5+ in the Driving Skill
• +4 Constitution
• +2 Dexterity
• −2 Strength
• −2 Intelligence
• +3 Gear Head, Driving, and Pathfinder Skills
• While moving in combat, you have a Con Mod 
bonus in your Health Bar slots (only) equal to 
1/10th of the Move value of your means of 
conveyance. If on foot, you must have spent a Move 
Action during the previous round to gain this bonus
• You bolt across the room and slam through each 
entity in the way. [Rank = Floor Number] + Dex to 
hit, 1d12 Bludgeoning, 2d10+3ft Line, then you 
gain the Fatigued Debuff. Critical Fail on a Natural 4 
or less. Cooldown: 30 hours. Add 1d at Rank 5, 10, 
and 15. Rank only increases by Floor
• Once per combat, roll 1d2 when you lose 2+ Health 
Bar slots. On a 1, the attacker loses 1 Health Bar slot
• Resistance to Force damage
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby 
Potion
Zulu Warrior 
Class Type: Fighter
You’ve trained from an early age under the tutelage of 
your elders, learning discipline and endurance. While 
others might prefer the relative safety of firearms and 
other ranged weapons, you prefer getting up close 
and personal to give your enemies an old-fashioned 
beatdown. Using your swift mobility, you can quickly 
flank foes and catch them off guard. 
• +3 Strength, Constitution, and Dexterity
• +3 in one Melee Weapon Skill of your choice

• +2 Attack of Opportunity, Endurance, and Running 
Skills
• +1 DR
• One Weapon Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby 
Potion
MAGE
In the World Dungeon, magic is common, but 
mastery of magic is rare. Most who practice magic 
maintain some form of martial or spiritual traditions, 
so they can access a wider range of tools. There is an 
order, however, which based much of its training on 
mastering only the metaphysical, for they believe that 
by perfecting their craft, they can transcend reality 
and escape into the source of all magic.
Yeah, it’s weird and cult-y at times, but whatever 
gets you through to the next Floor, amiright?
Boring Ol’ Mage
Class Type: Mage
Ever faithful to the old traditions, you, as an adherent 
of the Boring Ol’ Mage School (as their foes would 
describe them), strive to learn how to channel sheer 
arcane power at the cost of other Skills. Though some 
believe this equips the Boring Ol’ Mage Class with 
glass jaws, your rigorous focus on magic channels 
portions of your intellect into impressive effects.
Several crawlers have attempted to waylay 
one of these Mages only to find they’re capable 
of channeling sudden destructive powers and 
manifesting Spells straight out of legend, often with 
the same showmanship and magical-sounding words 
found in movies, TV shows, and fantasy books.
• +5 Intelligence and Charisma
• −2 Strength and Dexterity
• +3 in a Fire Spell
• +2 in one Force Spell and one Sonic Spell
• +2 in two different Passive Spells
• +2 Lore Skill
• +1 Arcane Skill
• −3 Ranks in all Dexterity Skills (to a minimum of 1 
Rank if you have any Ranks)
• −3 Ranks in all Strength Skills (to a minimum of 1 
Rank if you have any Ranks)3

--- PAGE 155 ---
Blizzardmancer
Class Type: Mage
The Blizzardmancer represents the first 
step on a journey most Mages are too 
sensible—or too cold-averse—to attempt. 
While your peers are out there hurling 
fireballs and lightning bolts, you’ve 
chosen the deeply inconvenient 
powers of water and ice.
You don’t explode things. You preserve 
them. In a block of ice. Yeah, that’ll teach 
’em! And while you’re on your way back 
to your dorm to cry frigid tears into your 
pillow at night, don’t forget to drop 
some ice cubes in my drink.
• +4 Intelligence
• +3 Dexterity
• −2 Strength
• +4 Ice Blast and Frost Scar Spells
• +2 Aiming Skill
• Resistance to Ice damage
• You can use the Aiming Skill for single-target Ice 
Spells
Crisper
Class Type: Mage
To say you’re hot is putting it mildly: You’re literally 
on fire! You can generate flames out of nothing to 
protect yourself and absolutely roast others. Unlike 
other fire users, you can modulate how much heat 
you’re putting out, meaning you can do anything 
from cooking a quick meal to pelting your opponent 
with fiery pine cones.
The Crisper can also add additional effects to their 
fire abilities. You can burn your opponents, sear them, 
scorch their armor, and even extend healing magic 
through your flames to heal others… as long as they 
don’t mind a few blisters in the process. By laying on 
your hands, you can also use your abilities to burn out 
harmful magics and effects hurting your allies.
Crispers don’t excel in humid or wet environments, 
and despite their abilities, water tends to reduce their 
effectiveness. But if you need a fire user who knows 
the sheer versatility of one of the primal elements, the 
Crisper makes for a great support Class who can keep 
things warm and friendly among friends and fiery and 
destructive toward foes.

31
• +3 Intelligence
• +2 Dexterity
• −2 Constitution
• +3 Wall of Fire and Fire Fingers 
Spells
• +2 Fireball and Wilbur’s Slow-Build 
Fireblast Spells
• +2 Lore Skill
• Resistance to Fire damage
• No DR against Ice or water-based 
damage
Fire Spiritualist
Class Type: Bard, Mage
Every party wants that healer who will wade 
into battle and pluck them from the brink of 
death. Well, that’s you! You have the burning 
desire to help others. I mean literally—your body 
glows, practically smoldering with powerful 
healing energies that can help your allies and 
harm your enemies. Just be careful not to get too 
close to any out-of-control water sources as they are 
bound to douse your healing flames!
• +2 Intelligence and Charisma
• +2 Holy Aura and Hot Stuff Aura Spells
• +2 Heal Others and Intimate Touches Spells
• Heal Others Spell can be raised to 20
• Ethereal Hug: Once per day for one scene, you can 
grant your party +1 DR, Rank 4 Regeneration (as per 
the Skill), +1 to hit on Weapon and Spell Skill Checks, 
and add 1d4 bonus when they deal damage
• Vulnerable to Ice damage
Forsaken Aerialist
Class Type: Mage
Some Mages use powerful magic to blast and destroy 
with all the subtlety of a runaway locomotive or a 
scorching fireball. But not you. You eschew the spotlight 
and instead seek out more elegant and discreet ways 
to take on your foes. You have learned how to bypass 
certain magical limitations to make even the simplest 
and weakest of spells into something capable of slowly 
and steadily taking down the most powerful of creatures, 
all while they are completely unaware of their plight. 
That frog in the boiling pot never knew what hit him!3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 156 ---
3
• +5 Intelligence
• −2 Charisma
• +3 Drain Life and Soul Collector Spells
• +1 Alchemy, Infusion, and Tactics Skills
• Double the duration of your Rank 5 and lower 
Spells that have a duration
• Your Spells can be applied to a creature without it 
realizing it is under a Spell effect
Necromancer
Class Type: Mage, Necromancer
You’re a Mage that specializes in manipulating life 
forces, sucking the life out of the living to raise the 
dead to do your bidding. Ever wonder why there are 
so many zombie apocalypse scenarios out there? It’s 
just Necromancers practicing their craft. Sure, the 
undead might be unruly and difficult to control at 
times, but they’re cheap labor, and there’s no threat 
of them unionizing—not intentionally, anyway.
• +2 Intelligence and Dexterity
• −2 Constitution and Charisma
• +4 Soul Collector and Rise, Dead Minion! Spells
• +2 Drain Life and Second Chance Spells
• Once per rest, you can ask the corpse of a dead 
creature a number of questions equal to your Int. 
The creature answers as truthfully as it can based on 
what it knew in life
• Whenever you kill an undead Mob, you heal 1 
Health Bar, up to 5 Health Bar per combat
MONK
While Fighters focus on their weaponry and Mages 
focus on spells, Monks seek harmony and natural 
balance within themselves and the world around 
them. And they kick a lot of ass doing it—turns out it’s 
pretty meditative to slam your fists, elbows, knees, 
and feet into your enemies!
Boring Ol’ Monk
Class Type: Monk
Often pugilists and unarmed combatants, Monks 
aren’t really all that devout or faithful: they’re just a 
boring ol’ Class from some dated kung fu movie or an 
archaic video game. You’re not like those Earth-based 
Monks who hang out in their monasteries chanting 

all the time, though you might want to be like those 
Shaolin Monks—they’re pretty fast and badass.
• +3 Constitution and Dexterity
• +1 Strength
• +3 Unarmed Combat Skill
• +1 Foot Soldier, Iron Punch, Powerful Strike, 
Pugilism, and Smush Skills
• +1 in Dexterity-based Weapon Skills
• Unarmed Combat Skill can be raised to Rank 20
Elemental Monk
Class Type: Mage, Monk
You have focused your monastic training on mastering 
the elements. It’s not that you wanted to, but your 
monastery was too cheap to provide proper weapons 
or training facilities. So instead, you learned to work 
with what you had, and harnessed earth, wind, 
water, and fire in subtle and not-so-subtle ways. Your 
understanding of the elements enables you to see how 
they both complement and work against each other, 
revealing the weaknesses of elemental beings and 
giving you knowledge of how best to defeat them.
• +2 Intelligence and Dexterity
• +3 Unarmed Combat Skill
• +1 Dirt Clod, Fire Fingers, and Frost Scar Spells
• +1 in all Spells with the Electric, Fire, and Ice 
damage types
• Advantage when attacking elemental creatures
• The ability to breathe underwater
• The ability to burrow
• The ability to fly
Prizefighter 
Class Type: Bard, Monk
Just like the galaxy loves a big, multi-floor battle royale 
death dungeon, they love watching two creatures beat 
the snot out of each other. Some do it for money, 
some do it for glory, but they all turn their faces into 
raw pulp for the crowd. The creatures in this audience 
don’t care who is fighting who, as long as one of them 
ends up a crumpled, bloody heap on the mat before 
the night is done.
Prerequisite: This limited Class is only available to 
crawlers who have Rank 5+ in the Pugilism Skill3

--- PAGE 157 ---
• +5 Constitution
• +2 Strength
• −2 Intelligence and Charisma
• +5 Pugilism and Iron Punch Skills
• 1 × Floor Number gold for every Mob you kill with 
a Pugilism or Unarmed Combat Skill attack
• When you kill a foe with a Pugilism or Unarmed 
Combat Skill attack, +1 Popularity
• Pugilism Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby 
Potion
Spirit Healer 
Class Type: Druid, Monk
Rather than focusing your knowledge of the body 
to harm, you use it to heal yourself and others 
through manipulating pressure points, lymph 
nodes, crystals, and any other health craze that 
was active when the World Dungeon 
opened. When pressured, you can 
also unleash your knowledge in 
practically painful ways on those who 
threaten you or your patients.
• +3 Strength and Constitution
• +1 Dexterity
• +3 Drain Life Spell
• +3 Smush Skill
• +2 Heal Others and Heal Self Spells
• Your healing Skills and Spells heal 
1 additional Health Bar slot when 
targeting a single individual
• Heal Others Spell can be raised to 
Rank 20
• Access to Club Vanquisher
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed 
Earth Hobby Potion
Street Monk 
Class Type: Fighter, Monk
You grew up on the streets, 
scraping by every day to 
survive. It was there that 
your gritty, unorthodox 
fighting style germinated, 

31
then took root and blossomed into a beautiful flower 
with petals shaped like kicking ass. You thrive in 
close-quarters fighting and can readily use the terrain 
around you for both offense and defense.
• +2 Dexterity
• +1 Strength and Charisma
• +2 Dirty Fighting Skill
• +2 Streetwise and Unarmed Combat Skills
• +1 Pugilism Skill
• +1 in Dexterity-based Weapon Skills
• +3 DR Buff
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby  
Skill Potion
PALADIN
Paladins are holy warriors—a mix of Cleric 
and Fighter—who often do battle in the 
name of their god. While this does 
spice up Fighters by granting access to 
magic, Paladins draw much of their 
power from their god, which means 
they’re subject to the same divine 
rules and regulations as Clerics. 
Boring Ol’ Paladin
Class Type: Paladin
You can call upon powerful spirits (the 
ethereal kind, not the drinking kind) for aid 
as you provide guidance and protection 
for others, and you manage to do it 
with color and flair!
• +2 Charisma
• +1 Charisma
• +3 Protective Shell, Heal 
Others, and Holy Aura Spells
• +3 in a Weapon Skill of your 
choice
• +2 Catcher or Shield Block 
Skills
• Access to Club Vanquisher
• Must worship a deity
• You cannot choose this 
Class if you have access 
to the Desperado 
Club3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 158 ---
3
Cavalier
Class Type: Fighter, Paladin
This classic mounted knight type is bound by a code 
the dungeon doesn’t fully understand. They’re a 
frontline duelist optimized for momentum, spectacle, 
and catastrophic commitment. Many mounts are 
fragile, but yours is a trained warhorse (or similar), and 
its armor (called “barding” if it’s not natural armor) 
should help keep it alive for a while.
The code you follow is up to you. You might be 
the protector of the downtrodden, of the frail, of 
lower-Level crawlers, of an opposite (or the same?) 
sex, of pets, or the badly injured. Or you might sell 
your sword to the highest bidder so you can make 
some sweet coin and live the good life—what little of it 
you have left down here. Who am I to judge?
• +2 Strength and Constitution
• +2 Catcher, Riding, and Lance Skills
• +2 Shield and Smite Spells
• When protecting someone under your code by 
using Catcher, gain the benefit of Playing to the 
Cameras (no Disadvantage, as this is a Passive Skill). 
This counts as your “once per session” usage
• Gain a bonded Mount one size bigger than you 
with Move 40, barding with DR 10, a Trample 
attack, and a pet carrier for it
• When you or your Mount is the target of an Attack, 
your fancy riding allows you to redirect an attack at 
your Mount to yourself or vice versa
• Access to Club Vanquisher
• Must worship a deity
Sacred Paladin
Class Type: Paladin
Piety is not a choice: it’s a calling. You are pure and 
noble, a valiant protector of the innocent and avenger 
of the wronged. You can fight the good fight, heal the 
sick, and provide solace to the dying. Yeah, you’re 
that guy in the party—the one who won’t let anyone 
have any fun in this godforsaken dungeon.
• +3 Strength
• +2 Charisma
• +2 Catcher Skill
• +2 in a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Heal Others, Smite, and Turn Undead Spells

• Access to the Dungeon Book of the Floor club 
(Favored: Cleric or Paladin Spells only)
• +2 DR Buff
• Access to Club Vanquisher
• Must worship a deity
• You cannot choose this Class if you have access to 
the Desperado Club
ROGUE
The cloaked figure moving through the shadows, the 
knife in the dark, and the nimble hands disarming 
a trap before it blows your head into a fine red 
paste. These are all the hallmarks of a Rogue, one 
of the most useful teammates to have in the World 
Dungeon—as long as they don’t get too greedy and 
decide you’re worth more dead than alive.
Boring Ol’ Rogue
Class Type: Rogue
Thieves. Assassins. Black market merchants. Rogues 
come in all sizes and flavors, but the one thing they 
have in common is their love of money. Maybe 
money can’t buy you love, but it sure makes for a 
good time in the Desperado Club.
Lookin’ at you, Author Steve Rowland.
• +1 Intelligence, Dexterity, and Charisma
• +3 Stealth Skill
• +2 Dagger, Detect Trap, Dodge, and Lockpicking Skills
• +1 Ambush Skill
• Can see in total darkness
• 1 x Floor Number gold for every Mob killed with a 
melee weapon
• Access to the Desperado Club
• Cannot choose this Class if you have access to Club 
Vanquisher
Bomb Squad Tech 
Class Type: Rogue
People who actually choose to work with explosives 
are the craziest bastards around. You excel at making 
things blow up. And while you’re good at keeping 
the bombs from going off in your own hands, Bomb 
Squad Techs still tend to lose both friends and limbs at 
alarming rates.3

--- PAGE 159 ---
Luckily, this Class comes with a benefit that can fix 
50% of that problem.
Prerequisite: This limited Class is only available to 
crawlers who’ve earned the Boom! Achievement
• +2 Dexterity
• +1 Constitution
• −2 Intelligence (After all, only dumbasses would 
choose to do this for a living.)
• +3 Bomb Surgeon and Find Trap Skills
• +2 in all Explosive-based Skills
• +1 DR Buff
• Limb Regeneration Benefit: In 12 days minus your 
Con Mod, one limb fully regrows
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Compensated Anarchist 
Class Type: Monk, Rogue
When the oligarchs want to manufacture a social 
movement, or better yet, stop one in its tracks, they 
must first bring in the big guns. The paid protestors. The 
Agent Provocateur. This Monk/Rogue hybrid Class is a 
trapmaking, bomb-making, social-media dynamo.
The Compensated Anarchist will happily throw a 
Molotov through a window one moment and step in 
front of a camera to plead for the violence to stop the 
next. Experts in hand-to-hand and dirty tactics, the 
Compensated Anarchist only suffers in more tradition-
al fighting techniques.
A recent balance patch has adjusted this Class’s 
values, but those who want to follow in Carl’s bare, 
delightful footsteps can still benefit from this Class’s 
wide array of bonuses.
Prerequisites: This limited Class is only available to 
crawlers who have Popularity 3 or higher and have 
Rank 5+ in the Explosives Handling Skill
• + 5 Charisma
• +1 Intelligence
• +2 Backfire, Escape Plan, and Find Trap Skills
• +1 Bomb Surgeon, Hide in Shadows, Trap Engineer, 
and Unarmed Combat Skills
• +1 Fear Spell
• Add no Stat Mod bonus damage when using Edged 
Weapons

31
• You pay +3 Mana to cast damage-dealing Spells
• At the end of each floor, add 1 to one of your 
trap-related Skill Advancement Checks
• At the end of each floor, add 1 to one of your 
bomb-related Skill Advancement Checks
• Access to the Desperado Club
• Access to the Naughty Boys Employment Agency
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
High Rise Grifter 
Class Type: Rogue
Pickpocketing marks in the park is nothing compared 
to making a big score, like ripping off a techbro high 
up in his tower, but with higher rewards come higher 
stakes. Only through meticulous planning and cunning 
execution can you hope to come out of your nefarious 
plots unscathed. Even then, you still need to assemble 
the right crew and acquire the right equipment. And 
after that job is complete, it’s on to the next one!
• +1 Intelligence and Charisma
• +4 Deception and Stealth Skills
• +2 Dagger and Escape Plan Skills
• +1 Determine Value and Negotiation Skills
• Access to the Desperado Club
• Cannot choose this Class if you have access to Club 
Vanquisher
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Identity Thief 
Class Type: Rogue
Direct confrontation isn’t your style. Instead, you 
make your living through guile and deception, adopt-
ing the role of a rich noble, a trusted merchant, or a 
long-estranged relative to work your way into wealthy 
families and organizations where you can pilfer trea-
sures and escape unawares. When it works, it’s great. 
When it doesn’t… well, as long as your legs still work, 
you can always run away, right?
• +4 Charisma
• +3 Dexterity
• +5 Deception Skill
• +3 Dagger Skill
• +2 Investigation Skill3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 160 ---
3
• Tier 3 Makeup Table
• Access to the Desperado Club
• Cannot choose this Class if you have access to Club 
Vanquisher
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby Potion
Swashbuckler
Class Type: Bard, Fighter, Rogue
You are daring and flamboyant, combining your 
exceptional swordsmanship and acrobatic agility with 
irresistible charm to win the hearts and purses of 
others. Your motivation may vary—perhaps someone 
killed your father when you were young, or your true 
love was lost to you while you were indentured at sea. 
Regardless, your tenacity and tenor have made you 
a foe to be reckoned with, while your charming wit 
and dashing style have generated a cult-like following. 
Even in the most inconceivable of circumstances, 
you can virtually do as you wish, with few dread 
repercussions.
• +3 Dexterity and Charisma
• +3 Rapier or Longsword Skill
• +2 Balance and Dodge Skills
• +1 Performance Skill
• +1 Light on Your Feet Skill
• Rapier or Longsword Skill can be raised to Rank 20
• You have Advantage when using a melee attack 
from a higher position than your opponent
• Once per combat, after you kill an enemy, you can 
make an Unopposed Performance Skill Check. On 
an Amazing Success or better, gain +1 Popularity
THE RACE & CLASS POINT BUILD 
SYSTEM
Didn’t see an option you liked? We’ve got good 
news for you picky and persnickety types: Players 
can simulate the thousands of options offered to 
their crawler by creating an entirely new Race or 
Class. Using the Build system, you can choose from 
the menu below to create your custom crawler. You 
have 25 Race Build Points and 30 Class Build Points  
to purchase specific abilities, and you can optionally 
select drawbacks to gain more Build Points to spend. 
Any leftover Build Points are lost, so get out there 
and spend, spend, spend!

Note: Race and Class Build Points are different pools. 
You can’t save some Race Build Points to spend on 
Class options or vice versa.
Step One: Imagining the Race or Class
The first step is to imagine the unique creation you’re 
bringing into the World Dungeon. Once you’ve got 
a clear idea, take deep breaths and push, just like in 
Lamaze class.
A New Race
Is this new Race a fantasy-style Race, a Race based on 
Earth myths or lore, or something truly unusual to fit the 
off-the-wall nature of the World Dungeon?
After you’ve got a clear picture, determine if they’re 
from Earth—including Earth folklore, mythology, and 
legend—or if they’re an alien entity entirely! Alien 
Races receive unique ways to gain popularity because 
they’ve got planets of fans who want to see the 
crawler represent them in the most popular program 
in the galaxy, but don’t get access to Earth Classes. 
Earth Races, on the other hand, get a sweet, sweet 
Silver Earth Box, which is guaranteed to contain a 
mostly-useless Earth Hobby Potion, which grants 3 
Ranks in a Skill, and access to Earth Classes.
A New Class
Based on the Race you’ve selected and your 
experiences on the Tutorial Floors, you should 
consider the theme for the Class you want to design. 
In the Dungeon Crawler Carl books, the Classes are 
a crazy mash-up of modern pop-culture memes and 
traditional fantasy tropes. Feel free to come up with 
themes for Classes from out in left field—it’s bound to 
be available in the dungeon!
Step Two: Benefits
Peruse the menu below and spend Build Points to 
give mechanical benefits to the Race or Class you’ve 
imagined. These benefits are ranked by general useful-
ness and power. They’re just examples, and players 
are encouraged to come up with original benefits 
and discuss them with the GM. Characteristics that 
don’t provide any mechanical benefits are free, such 
as a strange skin color, emitting an unusual smell, or 
having an odd voice.
Some Skill bonuses apply to thematically linked 
groups of Skills. The cost of such bonuses depends 
on the size of the group of Skills (4 or 6 points). 3

--- PAGE 161 ---
Thematically linked Skills include those that all use 
the same Stat, movement-related Skills, all Skills of 
a particular weapon type, or another definition that 
makes sense. Passive Skills, Spells in general, and 
Racial Skills are not thematically linked.
You can take the same benefit multiple times, if that 
affects anything. For example, Stat and Skill bonuses 
obviously work, but two instances of Resistance to 
Slashing damage do nothing more than one instance 
of it (Resistances are fixed at “half damage”).
The following menu provides Build Point costs for 
most examples in the Races and Classes above, plus 
many common effects. Keep in mind that this menu is 
an example of what’s possible with Races and guid-
ance for balancing what a Build Point is worth when 
assembling your custom creations.
Minor Benefits (1 Build Point each)
• +1 to a Stat
• Membership in Club Desperado or Club Vanquisher
• At the end of each floor, add 1 to your Skill 
Advancement Checks for a particular Skill
• Allow a specific Skill to be raised to Rank 20
• Add your Stat Mod a second time when using 
a specific non-combat Skill in a common 
circumstance
• A benefit that has a condition, such as gaining 
Advantage when attacking stone creatures
• Can see in total darkness or has a natural ability to 
produce light
• Double Mana regeneration from mending and rest-
ing in a specific environment
• You can see twice as far as most creatures
• A tier-1 crafting table (as soon as you acquire a 
personal space, it shows up there)
• A free room in saferooms
• Discount at stores, bonus earned from sales or inter-
est earned (+1 for each category)
• Gain a non-combat benefit once per session under 
very specific conditions
Moderate Benefits (2 Build Points each)
• +1 in a Skill or Spell, including Passive ones (you 
cannot have more than 5 points of Passive Skills in 
any Class build)

31
• Ability to heal 1 Health Bar slot when you damage 
or kill a creature with a specific Weapon Skill or 
Spell, up to 5 Health Bar per combat scene
• Add your Stat Mod a second time when making an 
attack in a common circumstance
• Roll with Advantage when making Skill 
Advancement Checks for a particular Skill
• At the end of each floor, add 1 to your Skill 
Advancement Checks for a particular group of 
thematically linked Skills
• At the start of combat, you can change your 
damage to a different type for that combat
• +1 DR Buff (to a limit of +3)
• Can access any guild of a particular type (for 
example, any Weapon Training Guild)
• Double Mana regeneration from mending and 
resting without a limit
• Membership in all professional and social clubs
• Membership in the Dungeon Book of the Floor Club
• Can raise a thematically linked group of Skills to 
Rank 20
• Mobs drop 1 × Floor Number gold when you kill 
them with a specific attack
• Ability to gain Popularity with specific actions  
and attacks
• Patron Benefit
• Resistance to an uncommon damage type (Force, 
Psychic, Necrotic, etc.)
• Resistance to damage dealt by the environment 
(Falling, Drowning, dungeon traps, etc.)
• Replace a Stat used in an ability with another Stat 
(normally, one that receives a Stat bonus), such as 
the ability to apply Charisma to Intimidate instead 
of Strength
• A Stat Mod from another ability be used in addition 
to the normal Mod for specific Skills
• Can use skills designed for one type of weapon on 
another type of weapon
• When you use a Healing-type Spell, the target heals 
1 additional Health Bar
• The ability to traverse certain terrain types without 
Skill Checks
• The ability to burrow
• The ability to breathe underwater3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 162 ---
3
• +1 in all Skills for a t emporary duration that’s an 
hour or less
• A natural attack at [Rank = Floor Number] that deals 
1d6 + Stat Mod damage. Choose the Stat Mod to 
hit and damage (and damage type). Add another d6 
at Rank 5, 10, and 15. Rank only increases by Floor
• The ability to reassign a Race or Class’s Stat point 
benefits once per floor during a Long Rest
Major Benefits (3 Build Points each)
• Access to significant assistance, akin to the Manager 
benefit
• Gain a friendly Pet or a Mount
• Ability to provide a significant Buff or Benefit up to 
4 Points to all of your Pets or Mounts
• An ability to dramatically alter an encounter once a 
day, such as by making enemies attack each other
• A defensive ability usable once per day, such as 
negating all damage you take from a single attack
• The ability to Buff the entire party once per day, 
such as granting them regeneration or extra DR
• The ability to fly, with some limitations
• The ability to survive without breathing, which also 
gives Immunity to inhaled toxins
• Rage (Benefit): Your melee attacks deal +1 damage 
for each Health Bar slot you have lost
• Size 2 (Small) or less
• +5ft Move (this increases the crawler’s Move value)
• +5 Step (this increases the crawler’s Step value)
• Add 1d4 to your Evade or Stat Checks for a specific Stat
• A natural attack at [Rank = Floor Number] that deals 
1d8 + Stat Mod damage. Choose the Stat Mod to 
hit and damage (and damage type). Add another d8 
at Rank 5, 10, and 15. Rank only increases by Floor
• Advantage when using a specific non-combat Skill 
or Spell
• Situational bonus of up to ×2 damage for one round
Con for determining Health Bar values with • Swap 
another Stat
• Gain a Climb Movement, which allows you to auto-
matically climb most surfaces, even ceilings

Extreme Benefits (4 Build Points each)
• +1 in a Skill that you wouldn’t normally be able to 
learn, such as Cockroach and Light on Your Feet
• +1 to all Skills in a thematically linked group of 
3–5 Skills (Hand-to-Hand Skills, Constitution-based 
Skills, etc.)
• Advantage on all Stat Checks for a specific Stat
• All Skills in a thematically linked group of up to 6 
Skills can be raised to Rank 20
• Immunity to Poison
• Resistance to a common damage type 
(Bludgeoning, Fire)
• Double the duration of your Rank 5 and lower 
Spells that have a duration
• Advantage on all Skills in a limited non-combat 
situation
• Additional functional arm
• Doppelgänger shape-changing
Epic Benefits (6 Build Points each)
• +1 to all Skills in a thematically linked group of Skills 
(Ranged Weapons, Intelligence-based Skills, etc.)
• All Skills can be raised to Rank 20
• A significant defensive ability, such as Immunity to 
a common damage type (like Bludgeoning, Fire or 
Piercing) or halving the damage of the first nine 
attacks against you each day
• The Limb Regeneration Benefit
• Roll with Advantage on all Skills in a wide-ranging 
set of circumstances
• Immunity to Poison and all diseases
• +1 in all Skills in a thematically linked group of 6+ Skills 
(Ranged Weapons, Intelligence-based Skills, etc.)
• A significant defensive ability, such as Advantage on 
Evade Checks, or Immunity to a common type of 
damage (Fire, Bludgeoning, etc.)
• A powerful and flexible ability that can signifi-
cantly change your Stats or Skills, such as a 
Changeling’s ability to assume another Race’s 
Stat or Skill bonuses
• Changeling shapeshifting
• Roll with Advantage on all Skill Checks for a  
specific Stat
• The ability to fly with no limitations3

--- PAGE 163 ---
Step Three (Optional): Detriments
You can take mechanical disadvantages to your 
Class—called detriments—giving you more Build Points 
to spend on benefits. You don’t have to take any 
drawbacks to your Class if you don’t want to, since 
the system AI is likely to put you into positions where 
your drawbacks make your life difficult. You cannot 
gain more than 5 extra Build Points via detriments 
for your Race or Class, for a total of 10 by taking the 
maximum 5 detriments for both Race and Class.
Stat Detriments
You earn Build Points by assigning penalties to your 
stats. You gain 1 extra Build Point for every 2 points 
of penalties to one or more stats. For example, a Class 
with −1 to Intelligence and −3 to Dexterity earns 2 
extra Build Points to spend.
Skill Detriments
You can also earn Build Points by assigning penalties 
to your current Skills. You cannot create penalties 
for Skills you don’t have, nor can you take a penalty 
larger than your current Rank in that Skill. You gain 
1 extra Build Point for every 2 points of penalties 
you take to one or more Skills. You can also take a 
penalty to all Skills under a single Stat, such as “all 
Charisma Skills,” gaining 1 extra Build Point for every 
−1 penalty you take.
Minor Detriments (1 Extra Build Point)
• Cannot choose Class due to membership in a 
specific club
• For every −2 worth of Stat detriments
• For every −2 worth of Skill detriments
• For every −1 to all Skills under a specific Stat
• +1 Mana cost to cast spells not favored by your Class
• Disadvantage when using a thematically linked 
group of Skills, when there is a condition (such 
as Disadvantage in all social Skills used against a 
certain category of creatures)
• Must worship a deity
• Cannot worship a deity
• You suffer a −1 penalty when making Skill 
Advancement Checks for a specific Skill provided 
by your Race or Class at Rank 5+

31
• Vulnerability: An uncommon damage type (such as 
Force or Necrotic) deals double damage to you
• You halve the effects of a broad type of damage, 
such as all Weapon damage or all Spell damage, 
that isn’t the focus of your Class (such as halving 
Spell damage if you are a Barbarian)
• A weakness that has two conditions, such as 
Disadvantage in social situations when dealing  
with Fairies
• Delay a bonus to after Level 50 or activating on the 
6th Floor
Moderate Detriments (2 Extra Build Points)
• A weakness with a single broad condition, such as 
Disadvantage in all social situations
• Skill only increases in Rank upon descent to the 
next floor
• Limited choice of weapons available to choose from
• No Stat Mod added to Weapon Skill provided by 
your Race or Class
• +3 Mana cost to a Class of spells provided by your 
Race or Class
• Disadvantage when using a thematically linked 
group of Skills, such as all movement-related Skills
• Prohibited from using a wide category of useful 
items, such as an inability to use certain types of 
Weapons or to cast Passive Spells
Major Detriments (3 Extra Build Points)
• A specific Stat is capped at 10. Even magic gear and 
potions cannot exceed this limit
• Vulnerability: A common damage type (such as 
Bludgeoning or Piercing) deals double damage to you
CREATING A CLASS EXAMPLE
Bob and all the other players in his game have 
reached the Third Floor, but none of the Classes fit 
what Bob wants to play: the Dungeon Dad , who 
looks after the rest of the party.
Now that Bob’s got a concept in mind, he starts 
talking to his Game Master about it. After a short 
discussion, they agree this should be an Earth Class 
that includes an Earth Hobby Potion. Bob looks 
through the menu and picks the qualities most 
important to his vision of the Class:3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 164 ---
3
• Grill Dad: There isn’t a grilling Skill, but Crocodilian 
gets a bonus after eating that fits what he wants 
to do pretty well. Since it’s a party buff, Bob and 
his GM decide that, since it’s a Buff for the entire 
party that’ll happen 3–4 times a day, it should be an 
Extreme Benefit worth 4 Build Points
• Protective Dad: There are a few ways to do this 
based on Skills and Spells, so Bob checks out the 
Catcher, Taunt, and Shield Block Skills, plus the 
Hot Stuff Aura and Shield Spells. The Shield Spell 
only protects his crawler, so that’s out, and so is 
the Shield Block Skill. Bob decides to put 3 Ranks  
into Catcher for 6 Build Points. He also decides 
that means he’s going to need a weapon, so he 
puts 4 Build Points into 2 Ranks of a Weapon of 
his choice
• Helpful Advice Dad: Bob takes 2 Ranks in the 
Tactics Skill (since his crawler tends to keep the 
group together) for 4 Build Points. Bob also talks 
to his GM about a way to make his crawler better 
at helping others, such as adding a +1d4 bonus to 
others when taking the Help or Intervene Action. 
They look at the menu and see “Add 1d4 to your 
Evade or Stat Checks for a specific Stat” as a Major 
Benefit. Since this bonus die requires Bob’s crawler 
to take an Action and it’s limited compared to the 
always-on +1d4 bonus on the menu, they decide it’s 
worth 2 Build Points
• Awful Jokes Dad: Bob loves making terrible, 
groan-inducing puns and worse jokes during play, 
so this comes naturally. First, he considers putting 
points into the Good First Impression Skill, but 
the rest of the players tell him that his awful jokes 
definitely don’t fit there. Rather than a Skill,  
Bob decides to put his points into his Charisma 
Stat bonus
• Fix-It Dad: Bob decides on this one easily and  
adds 2 Ranks to the Repair Skill, spending another  
4 Build Points
• DILF: Bob’s got some points left over and a good 
Charisma score, so he decides to put 4 Build Points 
into the Hot Stuff Aura Spell, gaining 2 Ranks and 
hitting the cap of 5 Ranks of Passive Skills for his 
Class Build
Bob reviews his choices and sees that he’s spent 
24 of his 30 Class Build Points. He decides to put 2 
Build Points into +1 DR, and the remaining 4 Build 
Points in Stat Points: +2 Charisma, +1 Strength, and 

+1 Constitution. With 30 Build Points spent, he 
considers Drawbacks and decides that the Dungeon 
Dad  is pretty clumsy, suffering −2 Dex, and that 
Dads may be experienced, but they feel their age—
and Necrotic damage makes the most sense for 
age-related injury, so he takes Vulnerability: Necrotic 
damage. These net him 2 extra Build Points, which 
he decides to put into an extra point of DR.
At the end, Bob and his GM decide that the 
Dungeon Dad’s  types are Fighter because of the 
Catcher and Weapon Skills, and Bard because of the 
advice and food buffs. Bob’s final Class looks like this:
Dungeon Dad 
Class Type: Bard, Fighter
Once a little league coach, you’ve watched much 
of life pass you by, but you’re determined to protect 
and guide the youth—even if they’re a group of 20- 
to 30-somethings who should have learned basics 
like reading warnings, how to share, and talk about 
their feelings without being an asshole before now. 
Well, you’re here to make sure they learn by teaching 
them the lessons the world never did and doing your 
damnedest to keep them alive.
• +2 Charisma
• +1 Strength and Constitution
• −2 Dexterity
• +3 Catcher Skill
• +2 Repair and Tactics Skills
• +2 to a Weapon Skill of your choice
• +2 Hot Stuff Aura Spell
• +2 DR
• When you and up to 6 allies consume a meal you 
cooked (taking at least 30 minutes to cook), each 
eater gains +1 Buff for all of their Skill Checks  
for 1 hour
• You roll a bonus 1d4 when you make the Help or 
Intervene Actions and add it to the benefit provided 
to your target
• Vulnerability: Necrotic damage
• Silver Earth Box, with guaranteed Earth Hobby  
Skill Potion3

--- PAGE 165 ---
Deities & Worship
Worshiping a god in the World Dungeon doesn’t 
necessarily mean a crawler is devoted to them in any 
meaningful or religious way. Like most elements of the 
dungeon and the “real” world, worship is pragmatic 
and highly sensationalized to spur viewership.
For most crawlers, to “worship” a god merely means 
carrying out required acts of daily devotion and paying 
tithes or tributes. The historical record of the gods in the 
dungeon would lead one to believe they are all-powerful 
and all-knowing, but in reality, most of them are limited, 
with humanlike intelligence, emotions, and motives. Just 
take a look at their family tree—everyone seems related 
to everyone, if you know what I mean.
What’s more, gods can be sponsored by entities 
outside the dungeon and forced to do their bidding, 
including interacting and communicating with crawl-
ers. While some of this is heavily restricted to avoid 
undue disruption to the crawl, this interference can 
still make crawlers’ lives a living hell.
CONSEQUENCES OF 
WORSHIP
For crawlers, worshiping a god is initially more 
relevant for Cleric- and Paladin-type Classes, 
but it becomes more important as the 
Crawl progresses. If a crawler sees a god, 
locates one of their temples, or finds a 
scroll of prayer, they receive the option to 
worship the god, though the duration might be 
extremely limited if they happen to come face-to-
face with a rampaging deity.
While worshiping a god 
may grant a variety of 
benefits, it also 
comes with distinct 
drawbacks. Many 
Game Guides warn 
their charges that most 
gods are assholes and are 
best avoided, though most Clerics 
and Paladins are required to choose a 
god to worship upon Class selection. In 
addition, generally only these types of 
Classes can achieve ranks higher than 
Devotee in the church, though some 
rare items may allow crawlers to bypass 

31
The bad stuff (and occasionally good stuff) a deity 
does for you is hidden in Chapter 6. That’s for the 
GM, so peek at your own risk.
RANKINGS IN THE CHURCH
Those who choose to worship a god begin as 
Acolytes (Tier 1). Significant acts of devotion may 
increase their title to Devotee (Tier 2), and for select 
followers, even the title of Zealot (Tier 3). A ranking’s 
Tier occasionally has rules benefits.
ACOL YTE (TIER 1)
Worshiping a deity earns you this title, bringing both 
expectations and benefits:
• Respect other Worshipers: You mustn’t cause harm 
to fellow worshipers of your god—even if they’re 
sycophants or jerks
• Offering: You must make the specified offering at 
a temple of your god at least once a day. If you are 
unable to locate a temple within a 30-hour period, 
you must make the offering at the god’s shrine that 
has now appeared in your personal space. You 
don’t have to act happy about it, though. (Note: 
GMs might agree to a number of offerings per 
Floor equal to the number of days before the floor 
collapses to make it easier to track.)
If you miss a day, you lose all the 
benefits that worship grants until you 
make the offering the next day. If you 
miss two days in a row, you gain a 
Divine Debuff. If you miss three days 
in a row, you gain the Fallen from Grace 
Debuff: You can’t worship any deities, 
and there’s a 50% chance of being 
smote. If you voluntarily leave the 
faith, you are smote.
• Tithe: Five percent of all looted 
gold must also be tossed into 
your god’s shrine
• Enemy God’s Prohibition: 
You may not own or wield any 
magical gear that is blessed by 
any rival(s) of your god
• Obedience: You must successfully 
complete all issued church 
quests3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

--- PAGE 166 ---
3
• Temple Access: You gain access to all temples of 
your deity
• Temple Locations: All temples of your deity now 
appear on your map. All temples of your deity’s 
rival(s) also appear on your map
• Identification: All worshipers of your deity are 
indicated with a symbol. All worshipers of your deity’s 
rival(s) are also indicated with a different symbol
• Death to the Infidels: Once per Floor when you kill 
an NPC, crawler, or Mob that worships your deity’s 
rival(s), you gain an additional Level. Once per 
Floor, if you grind for experience in a neighborhood 
where the Mobs worship your deity’s rival(s), you 
also gain a Level
• Vanquisher: You gain free access to Club 
Vanquisher, regardless of previous and current 
affiliations
• Rewards for Devotion: Every five consecutive days 
of worship (making tithes and daily offerings), you 
will receive a Boon from the god
DEVOTEE (TIER 2)
Especially devoted worshipers can achieve the title of 
Devotee. This is the highest ranking that a non-Cleric 
or non-Paladin can achieve.
• Upgraded Benefits: You receive several upgraded 
benefits from your god. These benefits vary 
depending on the deity you worship
• Increased Tithe: Your required tithe amount 
increases from 5% to 10%, effective immediately
ZEALOT (TIER 3)
For those who have chosen more religious Classes, 
such as Clerics or Paladins, exceptional devotion to 
your god grants even higher benefits.
• Skill Maximum: You can choose one of your god’s 
signature Skills and advance it to Rank 16
• Signature Stat: You gain 5 points in your god’s 
signature Stat
• Increased Tithe: Your required tithe increases from 
10% to 20%, effective immediately
DEITIES
There are many deities in the Crawl, including some 
based on Earth gods. The following are examples of 
deities a crawler could worship.

APITO, THE BLESSED OAK MOTHER, 
THE MOTHER OF ALL GODS
Daughter of Nekhebit, mother of Emberus, Eris, Grull, 
APITOGRULL OGUN (Version A) OGUN (Version B)
Hellik, and Taranis, wife of Taranis, and sibling of 
Scolopendra. In order to maintain the path to heaven, 
Apito’s angels must remain free and alive, and she will 
destroy worlds if violence against them is not stopped.
Temple: Sacred Grove of the Divine
High Supreme Cleric: Arkangel Debadora
Daily Offering: A single tear shed in sadness
Rival: Nekhebit
Likely Sponsor: The Dream
Signature Skills: Catcher, Shield Spell
Signature Stat: Intelligence
Symbol: Wooden face of a beautiful woman, with 
green hair shaped like leaves and tree branches 
cascading down her neck
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• When using the Catcher Skill, gain additional DR 
equal to your Tier of Devotion
• Double Int Mod for one Skill Check, once per day
Additional Devotee Benefits:
YSALTE ERIS (Version A) ERIS (Version B)
• Immunity to the Blood Trail Debuff
• Double Int Mod to all Skill Checks for 10 minutes, 
once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 Catcher Skill. If already at Rank 10 or 
higher, +2 Catcher Skill
• Double Int Mod to all Skill Checks during a 4-hour 
period, once per day
• Gain Rank 20 Catcher Skill for one use per day

--- PAGE 167 ---
HELLIK EILEITHYA NEKHEBITTARANIS3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONEILEITHYIA, GODDESS OF 
CHILDBIRTH AND FEMALE PAIN
Eileithyia is unlike most deities; she is benevolent 
and known for her kind heart. All mothers pray to 
her, both when they’re sowing seeds and when the 
harvest comes. She represents both the physical pain 
of childbirth and the inevitable darkness that comes 
to those who are unable to complete this most sacred 
task. She’s not known to seek the Ascendant Throne.
Temple: The Temple of Spring Dawn
High Supreme Cleric: Dhalia Ophal
Daily Offering: A petal from a blooming flower
Opposed To: Grull
Likely Sponsor: Huanxin Jinx
Signature Skills: Wisp Armor Spell, Heal Other Spell
Signature Stat: Constitution
Symbol: A blooming flower
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• Advantage on Stat Checks against Spiritual 
Possession
Con Mod to Health Bars for one attack, • Double 
once per day
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to the Poisoned Debuff
Con Mod to Health Bars for one combat, • Double 
once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 Heal Other Spell. If already at Rank 10 or 
higher, +2 Heal Other Spell
• Double Con Mod to Health Bars for a 4-hour 
period, once per day
• Gain Rank 20 Wisp Armor Spell once per day

31
EMBERUS, GOD OF SUN AND ASH
The sun god and brother to Taranis and Hellik, 
Emberus was once known to pursue justice with 
indifference to suffering, but now he seems to 
simply punish those he dislikes on a whim. A strong 
contender for the throne in the Celestial Ascendancy, 
he suspects his brother, Hellik, is responsible for the 
death of his beloved son Geyrun.
Temple: High Temple of the Ending Sun
High Supreme Cleric: Pater Coal
Daily Offering: A single drop of blood
Rival: Hellik
Likely Sponsor: Lemig Sortion
Signature Skills: Morning Star (Club) Skill, Fire 
Fingers Spell
Signature Stat: Constitution
Symbol: A circular sun disk with triangular rays
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• Resistance to Fire damage
Con Mod to Health Bars for one attack, • Double 
once per day
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to the Burned Debuff
Str Mod to all attacks made in a single • Double 
combat, once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Immunity to Fire damage
• Resistance to Sheol Fire damage (which is not 
standard Fire damage)
• Gain Rank 20 Fireball Spell once per day

--- PAGE 168 ---
3
ERIS, GODDESS OF CHAOS
APITOGoddess of Chaos. Half-sister of Taranis, mother to 
nobody, lover of parties, drinking, chaos—of course—
and generally known as the Ascendancy’s worst, 
most unapologetic gossip. If she were mortal and 
Human, she’d be called a wine aunt. She’d also have 
a rich, dead husband who died under mysterious 
circumstances.
Temple: Sanctum of Disharmonious Mayhem
High Supreme Cleric: Sybil Devereaux
Daily Offering: A secret never previously shared with 
anyone else
Rival: Oshun
Likely Sponsor: Helene Jbarska
Signature Skills: Deception Skill, Grand Illusion Spell
Signature Stat: Charisma
Symbol: A spinning five-sided coin
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
YSALTE ERIS (Version A) ERIS (Version B)
• Advantage on Deception Skill Checks
Cha Mod to one Skill, once per day• Double 
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to Deception attempts
• Double Cha Mod to all Skill Checks for 10 minutes, 
once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 Deception Skill. If already at Rank 10 or 
higher, +2 Deception Skill
• Double Cha Mod to all Skill Checks during a 4-hour 
period, once per day
• Gain Rank 20 Deception Skill for one Check each day

GRULL, GOD OF WAR
GRULL OGUN (Version A) OGUN (Version B)Grull is the child of Taranis and Apito and is one of the 
few trueborn heirs to the Celestial Ascendancy. He 
has an angry streak as long as a horse’s cock, making 
Taranis worry that his son may not be the best choice 
to rule the heavens. Plus, Grull’s worshipers tend to be 
donkeys and other equine-themed creatures.
Temple: Grand Cathedral of Slaughter
High Supreme Cleric: Ferrus Shank
Daily Offering: A drop of blood (or blood equivalent) 
from a slain enemy
Rival: Eileithyia
Likely Sponsor: Skull Empire (in general) or Prince 
Maestro (specifically)
Signature Skills: Iron Punch Skill, Pugilism Skill
Signature Stat: Strength
Symbol: A double-headed axe with an oak tree for a 
handle
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• Advantage on Checks versus Fear effects
Str Mod to damage for one attack, once • Double 
per day
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to Fear effects
• Double Str Mod to all attacks made in a single 
combat, once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 Intimidate Skill. If already at Rank 10 or 
higher, +2 Intimidate Skill
• Double Str Mod to all attacks made during a 4-hour 
period
• Gain Rank 20 Pugilism for one Attack per day

--- PAGE 169 ---
HELLIK EILEITHYA NEKHEBIT
HELLIK EILEITHYA NEKHEBITTARANIS3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONHELLIK, GOD OF SUN AND LIFE
The twin brother of Emberus, the younger brother of 
Taranis, and the son of Apito. Hellik is allegedly “quite 
obsessed” with killing his brothers and is the most 
likely culprit in Geyrun’s death, even though he was 
in council with Emberus when the murder happened 
and denies it. Instead, he seeks to work with Emberus 
to discover what happened to his son.
Temple: The Citadel of Light
High Supreme Cleric: Vas Vasterdame
Daily Offering: None required
Rival: Emberus
Likely Sponsor: Viceroys (The Madness) or Ripper 
Wonton
Signature Skills: Taunt Skill, Second Chance Spell
Signature Stat: Charisma
Symbol: A sun shining on a field of crops
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• Advantage on Persuasion Skill Checks
Cha Mod to one Skill, once per 30 hours• Double 
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to the Enraged Debuff
• Double Cha Mod to all Skill Checks for 10 minutes, 
once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 Taunt Skill. If already at Rank 10 or higher, 
+2 Taunt Skill
• Double Cha Mod to all Skill Checks during a 4-hour 
period, once per day
• Gain Rank 20 Second Chance Spell once per day

31
TARANIS
NEKHEBIT , SCA VENGER MOTHER 
GODDESS
Called the Scavenger Mother of Mothers, Nekhebit 
was a life and protector deity. Depicted as a vulture 
or scavenger, she cleaned up after the others. She 
supposedly wasn’t allowed to have children, but had 
three kids anyway, including Apito. Nekhebit was the 
last of the old gods to fall, and she was defeated by 
her daughter Apito.
Temple: Temple of the Desert
High Supreme Cleric: The Desert Spector
Daily Offering: A cup of cold water
Rival: Apito
Likely Sponsor: Odette
Signature Skills: First Aid Skill, Salvage Skill
Signature Stat: Intelligence
Symbol: The bare head of a large vulture
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• Advantage on First Aid Skill Checks
Int Mod to one Skill, once per day• Double 
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to the Queasy Debuff
• Double Int Mod to all Skill Checks for 10 minutes, 
once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 First Aid Skill. If already at Rank 10 or 
higher, +2 First Aid Skill
• Double Int Mod to all Skill Checks during a 4-hour 
period, once per day
• Gain Rank 20 Salvage Skill for one Check per day

--- PAGE 170 ---
3
OGUN, GOD OF BLACKSMITHERY HELLIK EILEITHYA NEKHEBIT
AND ARMORAPITOGRULL OGUN (Version A) OGUN (Version B)
Ogun is an outsider. He is one of the old gods, origi-
nally a member of an obscure pantheon that has since 
dissipated into time. He spends his days at his celestial 
anvil, angrily creating armor, piece after piece, but no 
one knows why he toils or what becomes of his armor 
when it’s completed. It’s said his creations have a 
strange shape, all designed for four-legged beasts.
Temple: The Eternal Forge
High Supreme Cleric: The Armorer
Daily Offering: A piece of steel
Rival: Legba
Likely Sponsor: The Dreadnoughts
Signature Skills: Warhammer Skill, Smithing Skill
Signature Stat: Strength
Symbol: A large blacksmith’s hammer
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
YSALTE ERIS (Version A) ERIS (Version B)• Advantage on Intimidation Skill Checks
• Double Str Mod to damage for one attack, once 
per day
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to the Take Down Debuff
• Double Str Mod to all attacks made in a single 
combat, once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 10 Smithing Skill. If already at Rank 10 or 
higher, +2 Smithing Skill
• Double Str Mod to all attacks made during a 4-hour 
period
• Gain Rank 20 Warhammer Skill for one Attack per day

TARANIS, GOD OF THUNDERTARANIS3
Brother to Hellik and Emberus, half-brother to Eris, 
husband to Apito, father to Grull, Yarilo, and many 
more. Together, Apito and Taranis held the first 
Butcher’s Masquerade in the Halls of Ascendancy. 
Taranis is known to be hotheaded and fast to anger. 
He often falls short of his wife Apito’s ever-rising star 
in the Ascendancy.
Temple: Holy Tower of the Gathering Rod
High Supreme Cleric: Emitt Lathrop
Daily Offering: A jolt of electricity
Rival: Emberus
Likely Sponsor: Monty Winter Jr
Signature Skills: Dodge Skill, Lightning Bolt Spell
Signature Stat: Dexterity
Symbol: A jagged, silver lightning bolt
Additional Acolyte Benefits:
• All Electric damage attacks deal +Floor damage
• Double Dex Mod to Evade Checks for one combat, 
once per day
Additional Devotee Benefits:
• Immunity to the Shocked Debuff
• Double Dex Mod to all Skill Checks for 10 minutes, 
once per day
Additional Zealot Benefits:
• Rank 5 Dodge Skill. If already at Rank 5 or higher, 
+2 Dodge Skill
• Double Dex Mod to all Skill Checks during a 4-hour 
period, once per day
• Gain Rank 20 Lightning Bolt Spell once per day

--- PAGE 171 ---
Crawler 
Advancement
You’re gonna need to continuously get better in every 
aspect to survive. Stats increase constantly. Skills are easy 
to increase early on, but then they slow to a… crawl.
STAT INCREASES
When a crawler on the Third Floor or lower gains 
a Level, they also get 3 Stat points to assign as they 
choose among their five Stats. This increases both 
your Unenhanced and Enhanced Stats. The current 
Level limit is 250. Send letters to Mr. D if you think 
that cap should be removed.
If you arrived here from the Tutorial Floors, you can 
finally apply Stat increases based on the Levels you’ve 
gained. If you’re Level 9, you gained 8 Levels. I bet 
you were hoping for 27 points to work with. Oh no, 
you only gained 8 Levels, smart guy. Do this before 
choosing your Race and Class, in case there are Stat 
value requirements.
After reaching the Third Floor, you’ll need to find 
a saferoom to distribute your Stat points. You might 
level up several times before you find one, so just use 
a token, or write down how many Stat points you get 
to add when you finally get to a saferoom.
SKILL INCREASES
Leveling up doesn’t increase your Skills. Instead, they 
are only raised via using, grinding, training them, or 
via potions, Races and Classes. You’ll increase your 
Skill Ranks rapidly until they reach Rank 5, then things 
slow way down.
Note: Keep in mind the Skill Rank Limits (p. 129)
SKILL ADV ANCEMENT
Most Skills improve through use. Each Skill on your 
character sheet has a box in the column on the far right 
that’s labeled with a green checkmark. Whenever you 
attempt a Skill Check, whether you Succeed or Fail, 
mark the box if it isn’t already marked.3CHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATIONCHAPTER 3: CHARACTER CREATION

31
Marked Skills are eligible for a Skill Advancement 
Check. To make the check, roll 1d20 against your 
current Skill Rank as the Difficulty. If the result is equal 
to or higher than your Skill’s current Rank, you gain 1 
Rank in the Skill, up to a maximum of 15.
As you gain more Ranks in a Skill, it takes longer 
to improve. At the intervals below, make a Skill 
Advancement Check for each Skill with a mark.
• If at Rank 4 or lower, roll a Skill Advancement 
Check at the end of every 2 hours of play
• If at Rank 5 or higher, roll a Skill Advancement 
Check at the end of each floor
• After resolving these rolls, erase all marks and start fresh
• Passive Skills don’t require a Skill Check to use, and 
most of them don’t receive Advancement marks 
when used. With a few exceptions, you can only 
increase Passive Skills via magical means or through 
Race or Class benefits
• Hand-to-hand Damage Effects advance separately 
from their associated Attack Skills. When you use 
a hand-to-hand attack and a Damage Effect, mark 
only one or the other, not both
• Whenever you gain Levels, simply record your new 
Level on your character sheet. Once you reach a 
saferoom, you’ll get to increase your Stats and more!
EXPERIENCE POINTS
Many roleplaying games handle character 
advancement using experience points to represent a 
character’s learning and path toward mastery. In the 
Dungeon Crawler Carl novels, the system does assign 
experience points, but their use is poorly understood 
even by veteran or retired crawlers. This algorithm is 
incredibly opaque by design, partly due to crawlers’ 
repeated attempts to game the system and partly due 
to centuries of spaghetti code baked into the process.
The Dungeon Crawler Carl Roleplaying Game 
doesn’t use experience points at all because its 
designers are flesh-monkeys like you who quickly gave 
up trying to figure out Syndicate math. For simplicity’s 
sake, crawlers gain Levels simply by playing the game. 
Life (or death) in the dungeon is tough enough as it is. 
Don’t overcomplicate it.
Here are some basics:
Two-Hours: At the end of every 2 hours of play, each 
party member gains 1 Level.